# The Black List
## Introduction

The Black List is a collection of two Python scripts designed to provide insights into the evolution of movie scripts. The first script, film_and_words.py, retrieves all the words used in an input movie script and selects the 500 most frequently used words in all movies made five years prior to the input film, five years after, and those that were released in the same year. It then uses PCA to make a graph of all the data.
The second script, words_in_film.py, finds the first movie in which a specific word was used and analyzes the usage of similar words in movies five years prior and five years after the movie's release.
## Usage

The Black List includes two main scripts:
### film_and_words.py

The first script, film_and_words.py, provides insights into how an inputted movie changed other movies scripts. The results were inconclusive. The program performs the following tasks:

    Retrieves all the words used in the movie's script.
    Selects the 500 most frequently used words in all movies made five years prior to the input film, five years after, and those that were released in the same year.
    Uses Google's pre-trained word2vec model to convert all the words into vectors.
    Uses PCA (Principal Component Analysis) to display a graph.

### words_in_film.py

The second script, words_in_film.py, finds a specific word in the first movie it appears, and searches similar words in five years prior and five years after the found movie's release. The program performs the following tasks:

    Finds the first movie in which a specific word or a similar word was used.
    Uses Google's pre-trained word2vec model to find a set of words that are similar to the input word.
    Extracts the 20 most frequently used words in two timeframes: 5 years before the movie's release and 5 years after the movie's release.

## Additional Information

For more information and to view some example graphs generated by the Black List, please see the following slideshow: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/13ZqnHZmzhomUFCEgutf4yKX-PP2-eIQ5/edit#slide=id.p20
