agnes of god
fade in

ext  convent  day

whispering of nuns at prayer

dissolve to

int  chapel  day

nuns at prayer mother miriam the superior closes the gate and locks it

dissolve to

ext  courtyard  day

the nuns walking around the courtyard in an anticlockwise direction saying the rosary

dissolve to

int  chapel  day

a line of nuns kneeling at prayer closeups of various individuals

dissolve to

ext  convent  night

a single shot of the building

int  top corridor  night

sister marguerite is locking up for the night shutting doors turning off lights finally walks off down the corridor suddenly a terrified scream is heard the voice of a young woman

ext  convent  night

lights in the windows flick on

int  top corridor  night

the nuns are running up the corridor in their night dresses and caps calling urgently in french they reach the door of sister agnes room and try the door it is blocked pushing harder they see the blood stained figure of sister agnes much alarm and crying

					mother superior
			agnes agnes

ext  convent  night

an ambulance comes tearing down the road siren blaring it cuts the siren and stops outside the convent gates the nuns open the gate and the ambulance drives inside

int  top corridor  night

two paramedics urgently run the stretcher down the hall to the unconscious figure of sister agnes the mother superior desperately wipes and kisses her face

					paramedic
			im just going to put something here to
			stop the bleeding excuse me sister
			shell be fine

they lift her on to the stretcher and run back down the hall

the mother superior looks around worriedly and goes into

int  sister agnes room  night

she kneels down by a waste paper basket full of bloodied sheets and starts to pull them out  then she freezes makes the sign of the cross and starts to weep

dissolve to

ext  montreal  night

an aerial shot of the great cross of montreal superimposed over this are the words 

montreal quebec

dissolve to

ext  supreme court  day

a normal busy day a car pulls up with a woman and a man driving the woman is martha livingston she kisses the man larry gets out of the car runs across the road dodgingtraffic and goes up the steps of the courthouse there a group of reporters there and a sudden bustle of interest

					reporter
			here they are now

martha watches intently as 3 nuns the mother superior sister marguerite and sister agnes dressed in a white novices habit and their lawyer come out of the court escorted by police the reporters leap on them taking photographs asking questions in english and french suddenly sister agnes looks right at martha then she is quickly bustled past martha goes on into the courthouse

int  judges chambers  day

inside eve lyon and justice leveau are sitting martha is standing by the window smoking furiously

					leveau
			martha its you

					martha
			what about roger hes free

					eve
			they want a woman

					lyon
			all you have to do is meet with her
			once or twice then tell the court
			shes insane

					martha
			are you dictating my position to me
			were getting into some sticky legal
			territories here

					eve
			martha all were saying is noone wants
			this to come to trial not the church not
			the crown least of all me

					martha
			eve she strangled a baby

					eve
			nobody is interested in sending a nun
			to prison

					leveau
			were not telling you what to decide
			martha were not even telling you to
			take this

					lyon
			is there any reason why you feel you
			shouldnt take it

	martha pauses for a long moment at the window then turns

					martha
			todays my birthday i always make
			bad decisions on my birthday

the judge eve and lyon all chuckle the judge throws the file down on his desk towards her

					leveau
			happy birthday


15   int  marthas apartment  night

	martha unlocks the door and comes in she plays her answerphone
and moves  over to her cat

					martha
			hi kitty

	the answerphone whirs

					secretary vo
			hi its helen calling to tell you
			that mrs davenport phoned to confirm
			her appointment at nine oclock
			tomorrow okay  bye bye

	some whirs and clicks

					roger vo
			hi martha its roger can you call
			me at the hospital id like your opinion
			on a case oh bye the way happy
			birthday bye

					secretary vo
			hi marty its helen again i cancelled
			your wednesday afternoon appointment
			so you can visit with your mother bye bye

					man
				in french
			

	martha picks up a news paper with a photo of sister agnes on
the front

										dissolve to

16   ext  convent  day

	martha pulls up in her bmw outside the convent walls and gets
out cigarette
	in hand a sign tangled over with creeper reads les petites
soeurs de marie madeleine martha jangles a bell after a wait she
presses a buzzer a   peephole in the door slams open and sister
marguerite looks out

					martha
			bonjour im doctor martha
			livingston i

	the peephole slams shut but the door does open sister
marguerite glares at  her

					martha cont
			hello im doctor martha
			livingston i

	martha realizes it is the cigarette that is causing the trouble
and hastily	grinds it underfoot

					martha cont
			excuse me im

	sister marguerite eyes flick down at cigarette butt martha
awkwardly tries
	to kick it away

					martha cont
			the courtappointed psychiatrist

	sister marguerite gives a frosty imitation of a smile and
motions for her to    come in

					martha cont
			thank you i um i believe your
			mother superiors expecting me

	martha and the sister walk up the drive to the convent


17   int  waiting room  day

	martha follows sister marguerite into a grilled waiting room
sister moves    off leaving martha looking around curiously then
the mother miriam arrives  from behind the grilled door sees
martha sighs exasperatedly and enters	 giving martha a slight
start

					mother superior
				beaming at her own
					little joke
			doctor livingston i presume  im
			mother miriam ruth you neednt call
			mother if you dont wish
				shaking hands
			most people find it uncomfortable

					martha
			well i

					mother miriam
				carrying right on
			im afraid the word brings up the most
			unpleasant connatations in this day and
			age

					martha
			yes i

					mother miriam
			you can call me sister

					martha
			 thank you

					mother miriam
			you must have tons of questions you
			may smoke if you want to just dont
			tell any of the sisters

	martha sits  mother miriam gets her a box of matches

					mother miriam cont
			they wouldnt understand especially
			sister marguerite shed scare the pants
			off queen elizabeth
				 she lights marthas cigarette
			besides i miss them

					martha
			you were a smoker

					mother miriam
			two packs a day

					martha
			i can beat that

					mother miriam
			unfiltered

	martha inclines her head impressed mother miriam sits down
next to her

					mother miriam cont
			well you have questions
				checks her watch
			fire away

					martha
			who knew about agnes pregnancy

					mother miriam
			noone

					martha
			how did she hide it from the other nuns

					mother miriam
			she undressed alone she bathed alone

					martha
			is that normal

					mother miriam
			yes

					martha
			how did she hide it during the day

					mother miriam
				indicating her habit
			she could have hidden a machine gun in
			here if she had wanted to

					martha
			didnt she have any physical examinations
			in this time

					mother miriam
			were examined once a year her pregnancy
			fell in between the doctors visits

					martha
			who was the father

					mother miriam
			i havent a clue

					martha
			what man had access to her

					mother miriam
			none as far as i know

					martha
			was there a priest

					mother miriam
			yes but i

					martha
			whats his name

					mother miriam
			father martineau but i dont see him
			as a candidate

					martha
			could there have been anyone else

					mother miriam
				a pause
			obviously there was

					martha
			and you didnt try to find out who

					mother miriam
				standing
			believe me ive done everything possible
			short of asking agnes

					martha
			why havent you asked her

	mother miriam removes a tray from under a pot plant and brings
it back to
	use as an ashtray

					mother miriam
				sitting again
			she cant even remember the birth do
			you think shed admit to the conception

					martha
			look someone gave her the baby

					mother miriam
			yes but that was some ten months ago
			i fail to see that the identity of that
			somebody has anything to do with this
			trial

					martha
			why do you think that

					mother miriam
			dont ask me those questions dear
			im not the patient

					martha
			well im the doctor im the one whos
			going to decide what is or is not
			important here

					mother miriam
			look doctor i dont know how to tell you
			this politely but i dont approve of you
			not you personally

					martha
			the science of psychiatry

					mother miriam
				standing
			exactly i want you do deal with agnes
			as speedily and as easily as possible
			she wont hold up under any sort of cross
			examination

					martha
				also standing
			i am not with the inquisition

					mother miriam
			and i am not from the middle ages i
			know what you are  i dont want that
			mind cut open

	then mother miriam walks out


18   int  waiting room  day

	a little later martha is sitting alone smoking sister anne
enters and indicates that martha should follow her they exit out of
the grilled room
	and head up a steep flight of wooden stairs faintly the voice
of a single
	young woman can be heard singing in latin


19   int  top corridor  day

	martha follows sister anne down the hall towards the singing
they stop  outside agnes room martha looks to see


20   int  agnes room  day

	 agnes an almost childlike young woman singing happily
looking out the
	window then agnes hears a slight sound and stops abruptly she
turns to see
	martha standing in the doorway

					martha
			hello im doctor livingston ive been
			asked to talk to you may i

					agnes
			yes

	martha moves further in the room an elderly nun hovers outside
the door

					martha
			you have a lovely voice

					agnes
			no i dont

					martha
			i just heard you

					agnes
			that wasnt me

					martha
			was it sister marguerite

	agnes laughs and martha closes the door shutting out the old
nun

					martha cont
			youre very pretty agnes

					agnes
			no im not

					martha
			hasnt anyone ever told you that before

					agnes
			lets talk about something else

					martha
			what would you like to talk about

					agnes
			i dont know

					martha
			anything may i sit down

					agnes
			yes

	they both sit

					martha
			first thing that comes to your mind

					agnes
			god  but theres nothing to say about
			god

					martha
			second thing that comes to your mind

					agnes
			love

					martha
			have you ever loved anyone

					agnes
			yes

					martha
			who

					agnes
			everyone

					martha
			well who in particular

					agnes
			right now

					martha
			uh huh

					agnes
			i love you

					martha
				a pause
			agnes have you ever loved another
			man other than jesus christ

					agnes
			yes

					martha
			who

					agnes
				chuckles
			oh there are so many

					martha
			well do you love do you love
			father martineau

					agnes
			oh yes

					martha
			do you think he loves you

					agnes
			oh i know he does

					martha
			hes told you

					agnes
			no but when i look into his eyes
			i can tell

					martha
			youve been alone together

					agnes
			yes

					martha
			often

					agnes
			at least once a week

					martha
			and you like that

					agnes
			oh yes

					martha
			where do you meet

					agnes
				obviously
			in the confessional

	a slightly awkward pause

					martha
			agnes do ever see father martineau
			outside the

	agnes suddenly looks exasperated

					agnes
			you want to talk about the baby
			dont you

					martha
			would you like to talk about it

					agnes
			i never saw any baby i think they
			made it up

					martha
			why should they

					agnes
			i dont know

					martha
			do you remember the night they said
			it came

					agnes
			no i was sick

					martha
			how were you sick

					agnes
			something i ate

					martha
			did it hurt

					agnes
			yes

					martha
			where

					agnes
			down there

					martha
			and what did you do

					agnes
			i went to my room

					martha
			and what happened

					agnes
			i got sicker

					martha
			and then what

					agnes
			i fell asleep

					martha
			in the middle of all the pain

					agnes
			yes

					martha
			where did the baby come from

					agnes
			what baby

					martha
			the baby they made up

					agnes
			from their heads

					martha
			is that where they say it came
			from 

					agnes
			no they say it came from the waste
			paper basket

					martha
			whered it come from before that

					agnes
			from god

					martha
			after god before the wastepaper
			basket

					agnes
			i i dont understand

					martha
			agnes how are babies born

					agnes
			dont you know

					martha
			yes i do  but i want you to

					agnes
				very agitated
			i dont understand what youre
			talking about you want to talk
			about the baby everybody wants
			to talk about the baby but i
			never saw the baby so i cant talk
			about the baby because i dont
			believe in the baby

					martha
			then lets talk about something else

					agnes
				standing
			no no im tired of talking ive been
			talking for weeks nobody believes me
			when i tell them anything nobody
			listens to me

					martha
				also standing
			agnes

					agnes
				opens the door
			no no i dont want to answer any
			more questions

					martha
			would you like to ask them

					agnes
				pausing in the doorway
			what do you mean

					martha
			just that you ask and ill answer

					agnes
			anything

					martha
				smiles
			anything


21   int  nuns room  day

	the elderly nun looks out the window into the courtyard where
martha and agnes are walking then pulls the curtain across


22   ext  courtyard  day

	martha and agnes are walking together martha is smoking

					agnes
			whats your real name

					martha
			martha louise livingston

					agnes
			are you married

					martha
			no

					agnes
			would you like to be

					martha
			not at the moment no

					agnes
			do you have any children

					martha
			no

					agnes
			would you like some

					martha
			i cant have them any more

					agnes
			why not

					martha
				a pause
			ive stopped menstruating

					agnes
			why do you smoke

					martha
			does it bother you

					agnes
			no questions

					martha
			smoking is an obsession with me
			maybe one day ill become obsessed
			with something else then ill stop
			smoking do you have any more
			questions

					agnes
			one

					martha
			what

	they both halt

					agnes
			where do you think babies come from

					martha
			from their mothers and fathers of
			course before that i i dont
			know

					agnes
			well i think they come from angel
			lights on their mothers chest and
			whispers into her ear that makes good
			babies start to grow and bad babies
			come from when a fallen angel squeezes
			in down there and they start to grow
			grow till they come out down there
			i dont know where good babies come out
			and you cant tell the difference
			except bad babies cry a lot and they
			make their fathers go away and their
			mothers get very ill die sometimes

	agnes sits down on a bench and martha follows her

					agnes cont
			mummy wasnt very happy  when she died
			 and i think she went to hell because
			every time i see her she looks like she
			just stepped out of a hot shower and i
			im never sure if its her or the lady who
			tells me things  they fight over me all
			the time
				staring into space
			the lady i saw when i was ten i was
			lying on the grass looking at the sun and
			the sun became a cloud and the cloud
			became a lady and she told me she would
			talk to me and then her feet began to
			bleed and i saw there there were holes
			in her hands and in her side and i tried to
			catch the blood as it fell from the sky but
			i couldnt see any more because my eyes
			hurt because there were big black spots in
			front of them and she tells me things like
			like right now shes crying marie  marie
			 but i dont know what that means

	martha stands up disturbed agnes is slightly delirious with
happiness

					agnes cont
			 and she uses me to sing its as
			if shes throwing a big hook through
			the air and it catches me under my ribs
			and tries to pull me up and i i cant
			move because mommys holding my feet
			and all i can do is sing in her voice
			its the ladys voice god loves you

	and her cry echoes all around and the doves fly out of the bell
tower

					agnes cont
				to martha
			god loves you

					martha
			do you know a marie

					agnes
			no do you

					martha
			why should i

					agnes
			i dont know


23   int  mother miriams study  day

	mother miriam is standing checking some papers when martha
enters mother  miriam seems to have entirely regained her good
humour

					mother miriam
			well what do you think  is she
			totally bananas or merely slightly
			off centre or maybe shes perfectly
			sane and just a very good liar

					martha
			whats your opinion

					mother miriam
			i believe agnes is different

					martha
			from other nuns
				laughs
			yes i ive noticed

					mother miriam
			from other people
				moving across the room
			i believe she is not crazy nor is she
			lying

					martha
			how could she have a baby and know
			nothing of sex or birth

					mother miriam
			because shes an innocent shes a slate
			thats hasnt been touched except by god

					martha
				lights a cigarette
			thats ridiculous

					mother miriam
				moves to her desk
				 starts writing
			in her case it isnt shes had very little
			schooling her mother kept her home
			almost all the time and when her mother
			died agnes came here to us shes never
			been out there doctor shes never seen a
			movie or a television show shes never
			even read a book

					martha
			if shes so innocent how come she
			murdered a child

					mother miriam
			she didnt  this is manslaughter not
			murder she didnt consciously kill that
			baby shed lost a lot of blood she was
			unconscious by the time we got to her

					martha
			so someone else could have done it

					mother miriam
			no not in the eyes of the police

					martha
			and in your eyes

					mother miriam
			ive already told you what i thought

					martha
			that she was unconscious yes  so
			someone easily could have come in
			the room and killed the

					mother miriam
			you dont really believe something like
			that happened do you

					martha
			its possible isnt it

					mother miriam
			who

					martha
			one of the other nuns found out about
			the baby and and wanted to avoid a
			scandal

	mother miriam removes the tray from under a pot plant and bangs
it down in front of martha to act as an ashtray

					mother miriam
			thats absurd

					martha
			that possibility never occurred to
			you

					mother miriam
			noone knew about agnes pregnancy
			noone not even agnes


24   ext  convent  day

	marthas car exits out of the convent and heads up the road


25   int  car  day

	the car radio is playing light band music

					announcer vo
			you have been listening to mostly music
			from montreal this is cbc radio
				and again in french

	martha flicks the radio off and stops the car she thinks for a
moment
	then


26   ext  lonely road  day

	 she turns the car around and heads back in the direction
she came


27   ext  presbytery  day

	martha drives in through an entrance and pulls up outside the
presbytery


28   int  presbytery  day

	from inside the house martha can be seen knocking on the glass
fronted
	door	 presently a huge fat housekeeper answers

					martha
			is father martineau in please

					housekeeper
				in french
				

					martha
				answers in french
			

	the housekeeper indicates she should enter and walks back
inside

					housekeeper
				halting briefly
			wipe your feet

	they move into the next room the housekeeper goes further
calling

					housekeeper
			pere martineau
				in french
			

	martha stands uncertainly at the doorway the sound of thumping
is heard
	and then the figure of a very old priest father martineau
appears walking
	with a stick


29   int  presbytery dining room  day

	father martineau and martha are having tea he pours a slug of
whisky from a   flask into her cup and an even larger slug into his
own

					father martineau
				french accent
			they arise at five in the morning and
			theyre in bed by nine at night even if a
			man could get to them he would probably
			find them praying thats why i see that
			the real question is not only how he got in
			but when

					martha
			and youre the only man to see them

						father martineau
			i promise you doctor even if i had the
			inclination how could i possibly catch
			her  she would have to be a very slow
			and patient nun
				they both laugh
			ah no theyre a very special and rare
			people those sisters only a few of them
			left in this modern world consecrated to
			the praise of god


30   int  nursing home lounge  day

	an elderly woman is sitting watching spiderman on tv cackling
with laughter she is physically alright but quite senile martha
enters goes
	over to her and kisses her

					martha
			hello mama
				pulls up a chair
			 brought you something

					mama
			shut up im trying to watch this

					martha
			its your favourite

					mama
			who are you

					martha
			its martha mama
				hands over a tub
				 of icecream
			there you go

					mama
			marie brings me icecream too you
			know chocolate my favourite

					martha
			i thought cherryvanilla was your
			favourite

					mama
			not any more now i like chocolate

					martha
				stroking her hair
			did you have a good week mama are
			they treating you all right

					mama
			you know martha never comes to see me
			you watch it shes going straight to
			hell after all the things she said to
			me then she marries that son of a bitch
			of a frenchman has an abortion i
			knew that one wouldnt work out not
			like you marie you got married to god

					martha
				lighting up
			maries dead mama

					mama
			i remember when you was a little girl
			marie you come back from the movies
			and youd say  mama that ending was so
			sad and id tell you they had all the
			happy endings locked away in a vault in
			hollywood
				chuckles
			and you believed me

					martha
			mama that wasnt marie that was me

					mama
				a long pause
			who are you

					martha
			i im martha mama


31   ext  convent chickenyard  day

	it is raining distant thunder in the background martha is
standing under
	an umbrella talking to sister anne who is feeding the chickens

					sister anne
			the convent was built for over fifty
			not many of us left just us and
			the chickens

						martha
			how do you survive

					sister anne
			oh we own the land around here
			but we rent it out we keep a few
			acres for ourselves
				indicating
			some wheat corn some vegetables

					martha
			well thats a lot of land you must have
			help do you have field hands that help
			you

					sister anne
			no we work the land alone noone but
			sister marguerite and i are permitted
			contact with the public

					martha
			sister anne which was agnes room

	sister anne points up to a window on the corner of the convent

					sister anne
			oh that one there in the corner

					martha
			the one up on the third floor

					sister anne
			yes

					martha
			uh huh


32   int  agnes old room  day

	mother miriam unlocks a padlock on the door opens it for
martha they both	enter the room which is totally plain stripped
of everything

					mother miriam
			this convent is locked solid the only
			one that has a key is sister marguerite
			and she wouldnt let christ in after dark

					martha
			well its been known to happen in the
			day too maybe agnes went to him

					mother miriam
			oh come on youve talked to her she
			doesnt even know how babies are born
			let alone made

					martha
			when did you first learn about her
			innocence the way she thinks

					mother miriam
			shortly after she came to us

					martha
			and you werent shocked

					mother miriam
			i was appalled just as you are now

					martha
			and what happened

					mother miriam
			she stopped eating completely


33   int  chapel  day

	in flashback  agnes all in white is lying face down in the
sign of the
	cross in front of the altar mother miriam enters

					martha vo
			this was before her pregnancy

					mother miriam vo
			about two years before

	mother miriam stops in front of agnes

					mother miriam
			agnes it has come to my attention
			that you have stopped eating why
			is this
						agnes
				not looking up
			ive been commanded by god

					mother miriam
				sighs
			he talked to you himself

					agnes
			no

					mother miriam
			through someone else

					agnes
			yes

					mother miriam
			who

					agnes
			i cant say

					mother miriam
			why

					agnes
			shed punish me

					mother miriam
			one of the other sisters

					agnes
			no

					mother miriam
			who

	mother miriam glances up at an older nun who has been in the
chapel watching all along she takes the hint and hobbles out

					mother miriam cont
			why would she tell you to do this
			 agnes look at me

					agnes
				looking up
			because im getting fat

					mother miriam
			oh for heavens sake

					agnes
			i am theres too much flesh on me

					mother miriam
			agnes

					agnes
			im a blimp

					mother miriam
			why does it matter whether youre fat
			or not

					agnes
			because

					mother miriam
			 you neednt worry about being
			attractive here

					agnes
			i do i have to be attractive to god

					mother miriam
			he loves you the way you are

					agnes
			no he doesnt he hates fat people

					mother miriam
			who told you this

					agnes
			its a sin to be fat

					mother miriam
			why

					agnes
			look at the statues theyre thin

					mother miriam
			agnes

					agnes
			thats because theyre suffering
			suffering is beautiful i want to be
			beautiful

					mother miriam
			who tells you these things

					agnes
			christ said it in the bible he said 
			suffer the little children i want to
			suffer like a little child

					mother miriam
				genuinely distressed
			thats not what he meant

					agnes
			i i am a little child but my body
			keeps getting bigger and soon i i
			wont be able to fit in i i wont be
			able to squeeze into heaven

					mother miriam
			agnes dear heaven is not a place where

	agnes gets to her knees and pushes up her breasts

					agnes
			no i mean i mean look at these
			ive got to lose weight im a blimp

					mother miriam
			oh my dear child

					agnes
				standing
			god blew up the hindenburg hell
			blow me up thats what she said

					mother miriam
			who

					agnes
			mommy ill get bigger and bigger every
			day and then ill pop but but if i stay
			little it wont happen

					mother miriam
			your mother tells you this agnes
			your mother is dead

					agnes
			but she watches she listens

					mother miriam
			nonsense im your mother now and i
			want you to eat

					agnes
			im not hungry

					mother miriam
			youve got to eat something agnes

					agnes
			no i dont the host is enough

					mother miriam
			my dear i dont think a communion wafer
			has the recommended daily allowance of
			anything

					agnes
			of god

					mother miriam
				smiles
			yes of god

	then mother miriam looks down and is shocked to see agnes
white habit is  spotted with blood and more blood is dripping onto
the floor she pulls out   agnes hand from her habit and gasps with
shock there is a bleeding hole in
	the middle of her palm

					agnes
			im being punished

					mother miriam
			why

					agnes
			i dont know

					mother miriam
			dear jesus

		she quickly leads agnes out of the chapel

					agnes
			it started this morning and i cant
			get it to stop


34   int  agnes old room  day

	back in the present as before

					martha
			why didnt you take her to a doctor

					mother miriam
			it was healed by the following morning
			and she started eating again

					martha
			she had a a hole in the palm of her
			hand  she could have bled to death

					mother miriam
			but she didnt did she if anyone had
			seen what id seen shed be public
			property newspapermen psychiatrists
			ridicule she doesnt deserve that

					martha
			she has it now

					mother miriam
			i know what youre thinking shes a
			hysteric pure and simple

					martha
			not simple no

					mother miriam
			i saw it clean through the palm of
			her hand do you think hysteria could
			do that

					martha
			its being doing it for centuries shes
			not unique shes just another victim

					mother miriam
			gods victim thats her innocence
			she belongs to god

					martha
			and i intend to take her away from him
			thats what youre afraid of isnt it

	martha walks out mother miriam yanks the padlock out of the
door

					mother miriam
			you bet i am


35   int  chapel  day

	all the sisters are present mother miriam leads the chant in
latin and the   rest of the nuns respond at intervals agnes is very
happy their singing  continues over until the end of scene 41

										dissolve to

36   ext  police precinct  day

	martha and larry are at the top of steps he hands her an
envelope

					larry
			here you are dont let anyone know
			where you got them

					martha
				kissing him
			thanks

										dissolve to

37   ext  convent  day

	agnes is happily swinging on a long swing attached to a tree

										dissolve to

38   int  crypt  day

	the sisters go about their tasks then all together they move
to a corner of  the room which is laid out with burning candles and
make their devotions

										dissolve to

39   int  confessional  day

	agnes is confessing to a rather disinterested father martineau

					agnes
			last tuesday i didnt eat all of my
			lima beans hid them under my
			spoon

				father martineau
			yes

					agnes
				very quietly
			i thought thoughts about

				father martineau
			speak up i can hardly hear you

					agnes
				very loudly
			i thought ugly thoughts about sister
			marguerite

										dissolve to

40   int  marthas apartment  night

	martha is leafing through a sheaf of police photographs of the
sheets and
	the wastepaper basket she puts the photos aside and puffs
thoughtfully on
	a cigarette

										dissolve to

41   ext  convent farm  day

	agnes is milking the cow she pours the milk into a large
churn
	the singing finishes at this point


42   int  judges office  day

	the same four are in a meeting this time they are all sitting
except for
	lyon who is standing by the window

					leveau
			would you tell me why the hell this
			is taking so long

						martha
			look there are a lot of unanswered
			questions here

					lyon
			martha your job is to diagnose not to
			heal and play detective who do you
			think you are

					martha
			i know my job dont tell me my job lyon
			my duty as a doctor is to

					eve
			martha you have to make a decision on
			her sanity as quickly as possible and not
			interfere with due process of law

					martha
			no no excuse me eve as quickly as
			i see fit

					eve
			the longer you take to make a decision
			the more difficult it will be for us

					martha
			why

					eve
			the bishop is breathing down our necks

					martha
			and the sooner she goes to prison the
			better off shell be

					leveau
				in french
			

					martha
			i dont believe this i dont bloody
			believe this

					lyon
			well the bishop will be very upset
			about this

					martha
			im fighting for this womans life not
			some bloody bishop


43   ext  convent graveyard  day

	it is a strange place all the crosses are identical and very
simple martha
	is standing agnes is kneeling in front of a cross marked with
the name
	soeur marie paul and the dates she was born consecrated and
died agnes
	places some winter flowers on the grave

					martha
			you liked sister paul

					agnes
			she was kind to me she told me
			i was beautiful

					martha
				crouching down
			what else did she tell you

					agnes
			she said all of gods angels would
			want to sleep beside me if they could
			i liked that

	agnes makes the sign of the cross they both stand and start to
move off

					agnes cont
			she lived here for almost seventy
			years every day shed ring the bell
			wake us up call us to god she took
			me to my secret place

					martha
			wheres that i promise i wont tell
			would you take me

	so agnes takes her


44   int  bell tower  day

	martha and agnes enter the belltower agnes leads the way up
the steep  wooden steps martha becomes breathless almost
immediately

						martha
			sister paul was in her eighties  did
			she climb up here often

					agnes
			no only when she felt like it she
			brought me up here last winter and
			the next day she died

					martha
				halting out of breath
			no wonder wait agnes agnes
			how do you feel about babies

					agnes
			oh they frighten me im afraid ill
			drop them they have a soft spot on
			their heads and if you drop them so
			they land on their heads they become
			stupid i was dropped on my head
			thats why i dont understand things

					martha
			like what

					agnes
				climbing again
			numbers you can spend your whole
			life counting and never reach the end

					martha
				following her
			i dont understand them either do
			you suppose i was dropped on my head

					agnes
			i hope not its a terrible thing to be
			dropped on your head

					martha
			oh ive got to give up smoking agnes
			 wait a minute agnes slow down


45   ext  top of belltower  day

	agnes climbs up through the trapdoor to the bell platform

					agnes
			she said you could see the whole
			world from up here but it looks
			much better far away than it looks
			close up

	martha arrives exhausted

					martha
			beautiful

	agnes lies down under the bell

					agnes
			and sometimes i get under here
			it makes a wonderful sound

	she starts to sing in a beautiful voice and the sound rings in
the bell

					martha
			what happens if the bell rings and
			youre under there

					agnes
			oh its even more wonderful then

	agnes sings a little more

					martha
			its like hiding from my mother when
			i was a little girl

					agnes
			where did you go

					martha
			oh no place as wonderful as this
			agnes have you ever thought of
			leaving the convent for something
			else

					agnes
			no there is nothing else just being
			here at night helps me sleep

					martha
			you have trouble sleeping

					agnes
			i get headaches mommy did too
			oh but she wasnt stupid she knew
			things that nobody else knew

					martha
			what things

					agnes
			she knew what was going to happen
			to me thats why she hid me away

					martha
			how did she know that

					agnes
			somebody told her

					martha
			who

					agnes
			i dont know

					martha
			agnes

					agnes
			youll laugh

					martha
			i promise i wont laugh who told
			her

					agnes
			an angel when she was having one
			of her headaches

					martha
			did your mother see angels often

					agnes
			no

					martha
			do you

					agnes
			no

					martha
			do you believe she really saw them

					agnes
				sitting up
			no but i can never tell her that

					martha
			why not
				no answer
			mmm

					agnes
			shed get angry

	martha moves round close to agnes

					martha
			agnes did you love your mother

					agnes
			yes

					martha
			did you ever want to be a mother
			yourself

					agnes
			i could never be a mother

					martha
			why not

					agnes
			well i dont think im old enough and
			besides i dont want to have a baby

					martha
			why not

					agnes
			because i dont want one

					martha
			if you did want one howd you go
			about getting one

					agnes
			from someone who didnt want to
			have a baby

					martha
			like you

					agnes

				suddenly frustrated
			no not like me

					martha
			how would that person get one if
			they didnt want one

					agnes
				jumping to her feet
			a mistake

					martha
			agnes how did your mother get you

					agnes
			a mistake it was a mistake

					martha
			is that what she said

					agnes
				very upset
			if youre trying to get me to say that
			she was a bad woman and hated me and
			didnt want me but thats not true she
			was a good woman a saint
				distorted

					martha
			agnes i dont believe you know nothing
			about sex

					agnes
			i cant help it if im stupid

					martha
			 that you dont remember getting
			pregnant

					agnes
			not my fault

					martha
			 and that you dont believe you
			carried a child

					agnes
			i was a mistake

					martha
			what the child

					agnes
			everything i dont have children

					martha
			agnes

	martha puts her arm out to agnes who slaps it away

					agnes
			dont touch me like that  you dont
			touch me like that i know what you
			want from me you want to take god
			away you should be ashamed they
			should lock you up people like you

	agnes disappears down through the trapdoor martha throws her
cigarette  away


46   int  convent  day

	mother miriam is comforting a tearful agnes she sees martha
coming across   the courtyard and pushes agnes gently away

					mother miriam
			you hate us dont you

					martha
			what

					mother miriam
			nuns you hate nuns

					martha
			i hate ignorance and stupidity

					mother miriam
			the catholic church

					martha
			i havent said anything against the
			the catholic church

					mother miriam
			catholicism is not on trial here i
			want you to deal with agnes without
			any religious prejudice or you turn
			this case over to someone else

					martha
			how dare you tell me to run my affairs

	mother miriam starts to walk away martha angrily follows her

					mother miriam
			its my affair too

					martha
			how dare you think im in a position
			to be pressured


					mother miriam
			im only interested

					martha
			 or bullied or what ever youre doing
			who the hell do you think you are  you
			go around here expecting applause for
			the way you treated this child

	martha and mother miriam are climbing the stairs they pause
briefly

					mother miriam
			she is not a child

					martha
			and she has a right to know that theres
			a world out there filled with people who
			dont believe in god
				mother miriams walks on
			 and arent any worse off than you
			mother people whove gone through
			their entire lives without bending their
			knees once to anybody and people who
			fall in love and have babies and occas
			sionally are very happy she has a right to
			know that but you and your your order
			and your church have kept her ignorant

	they reach mother miriams study

					mother miriam
			  distorted

					martha
			  distorted
			 virginity right mother  poverty
			chastity and ignorance is what you
			live by

					mother miriam
			i am not a virgin doctor i was married
			for twenty three years two daughters
			i even have grandchildren surprised
			it might please you to know that i was a
			failure as a wife and mother my children
			wont even see me any more thats their
			revenge i think they tell their friends
			that ive passed on and dont tell me im
			making up for past mistakes doctor freud
				she sits

					martha
			then help her

					mother miriam
			i am

					martha
			no youre shielding her let her face
			the world

					mother miriam
			what good would it do no matter what
			you decide its either the the prison
			or the nut house and the differences
			between them are pretty thin

					martha
			theres another choice

					mother miriam
			what

					martha
			aquittal

					mother miriam
			how

					martha
			innocence legal innocence i know
			the judge would be happy for any
			reason to throw this case out of court

	a long pause the tension between them dissolves

					mother miriam
			all right what do you need

					martha
			answers

	martha holds her hand


47   int  mother miriams study  day

	same place but a little later martha is smoking

					martha
			when would agnes have conceived the
			child

					mother miriam
			oh some time in january

					martha
			do you remember anything unusual
			happening at the time

					mother miriam
			earthquakes

					martha
			visitors to the convent

					mother miriam
			nothing

					martha
			do you have a a diary or a day book

					mother miriam
			yes

					martha
			take at look at it

	mother miriam moves to her desk and opens the day book

					mother miriam
			theres nothing here

					martha
			was the child full term

					mother miriam
				reads through the book
			oh dear god

					martha
			what is it

					mother miriam
			the sheets

					martha
			what sheets

					mother miriam
			oh dear god i should have guessed


48   int  convent dining room  night


	in flashback the sisters are sitting around the table at
dinner sister  genevieve the other novice is serving them mother
miriam folds up a linen    towel

					mother miriam vo
			 i should have suspected something

	in flashback mother miriam addresses agnes

					mother miriam
			sister marguerite says you have been
			sleeping on a bare mattress sister
			is that true

					agnes
			yes mother

					mother miriam
			why

					agnes
			in the medieval days the nuns and monks
			would sleep in their own coffins

	sister marguerite gives a snort of derision mother miriam
glances sharply
	at her then turns back to agnes

					mother miriam
			were not in the middle ages sister

					agnes
			it made them holy

					mother miriam
			it made them uncomfortable and if
			they didnt sleep well im certain the
			next day they were cranky as mules
			sister where are your sheets
				no answer
			do you really believe that sleeping on
			a bare mattress is the equivalent of
			sleeping in a coffin

					agnes
			no

					mother miriam
			then tell me where are your sheets

					agnes
			i burnt them

						mother miriam
			why

					agnes
				a long pause
			they were stained

					mother miriam
			how many times have i burned into
			your thick skull and the thick skull
			of your fellow novice that
			menstruation is a perfectly natural
			process and nothing to be ashamed of

					agnes
			yes mother

					mother miriam
			say it

					agnes and genevieve
			it is a perfectly natural process and
			nothing to be ashamed of

					mother miriam
			mean it

	the two girls start to repeat it but agnes starts to cry and
genevieve
	falters into silence mother miriam goes on more kindly

					mother miriam
			a few years ago one of the sisters came
			to me in tears asking for comfort
			comfort because she was too old to
			have any children not that she wanted
			to but once a month she had been
			reminded of that possibility

					agnes
			its not that its not that

					mother miriam
			what do you mean

					agnes
			its not my time of month

						mother miriam
			should you see a doctor

					agnes
			i dont know i dont know what
			happened mother i woke up there
			was blood on the sheets but i dont
			know what happened
				starts to weep
			i dont know what i did wrong i dont
			know and i should be punished

					mother miriam
			for what

					agnes
			i dont know i dont know

					mother miriam vo
			that was the beginning the night of
			the conception thats why she burnt
			the sheets


49   int  sickroom  night

	still in flashback mother miriam enters the room where sister
paul lies  dying father martineau is there and many of the other
nuns singing hymns

					martha vo
			when was that

					mother miriam vo
			the twenty third of january on that
			night one of our elder nuns passed away

					martha vo
			sister paul

					mother miriam vo
			yes i dont remember where agnes was
			i was needed in the sick room

	father martineau annoints the old woman then agnes quietly
slips in   unobserved sister paul rallies for a moment tries to say
a single silent
	word to her the smile slips from agnes face then sister paul
lies back
	and dies


50   int  cathedral  day

	martha and the monsignor are walking through the church
talking he is quite  young and has a rather abrasive manner

					beginning missed

					martha
			no

					monsignor
			well youre probably right about
			that it certainly cant help sister
			agnes to have this investigation
			continued for any length of time

					martha
			why do you call it an investigation
			i never have

					monsignor
			your mother was a resident of saint
			catherines home before you moved
			her

					martha
			what does this have to do with


					monsignor
			and you had a sister who died in the
			convent

					martha
			who told you this

					monsignor
			do you still go to church

					martha
			what business is it of yours

					monsignor
			oh we just wonder if you can be very
			objective about this case

					martha
			look father ah just because i
			dont subscribe to the to the beliefs
			you subscribe to

					monsignor
				halting
			but what you believe makes no difference
			to us whatsoever doctor but it does
			 make all the difference to agnes

					martha
			i dont understand are you expecting me
			to

					monsignor
			well somones got to suffer for this doctor
			youve got to be merciful and quick excuse
			me

	martha stares at him as he walks away


51   ext  convent  day

	a single shot of the back of the convent and the belltower the
bell is
ringing


52   int  belltower  day

	mother miriam is ringing the bell and it takes quite a
considerable effort


53   ext  convent farmyard  day

	agnes has a wheelbarrow full of straw and manure she dumps it
on a pile


54   int  cowshed  day

	martha is watching agnes milking a cow

					martha
			agnes im here because i want to help
			you

					agnes
			im not sick

					martha
			but youre troubled arent you

						agnes
			thats because you keep reminding me
			if you go away then ill forget

					martha
			and youre unhappy

					agnes
			everyones unhappy youre unhappy arent
			you

					martha
			agnes

					agnes
			answer me  you never answer me

					martha
			sometimes yes

					agnes
			only you think youre lucky because
			you didnt have a mother who said things
			to you and did things to you that maybe
			werent always nice but that was because
			of me because i was bad not her

	agnes carries the milk pail round to the churn

					martha
			what did you do

					agnes
			im always bad

					martha
			what did you do

					agnes
			i breathed

	agnes falls to her knees martha moves round and kneels in
front of her

					martha
			agnes what did your mother do to
			you
				no answer
			if you cant answer me just shake
			your head yes or no did did she
			hit you
				anges shakes her head no
			did she make you do something you
			didnt want to
				yes
			did it make you feel uncomfortable
			to do it
				yes
			did it embarrass you
				yes
			did it did it hurt you
				yes
			what did she make you you do

					agnes
			no

					martha
			you can tell me

					agnes
			i cant

					martha
			shes dead isnt she

					agnes
			yes

					martha
			she cant hurt you any more

					agnes
			she can

					martha
			how

					agnes
			she watches she listens

					martha
			agnes i dont believe that tell me
			ill protect you from her

					agnes
			she

					martha
			yes

					agnes
			 makes me

					martha
			yes

					agnes
			 take off my clothes and then
			she makes fun of me

					martha
			she tells you youre ugly

					agnes
			yes

					martha
			and that youre stupid

					agnes
			yes

					martha
			that youre a mistake

					agnes
			she says my whole bodys a mistake

					martha
			why

					agnes
			because she says if i dont watch out
			ill have a baby

					martha
			how does she know that

					agnes
			her headaches

					martha
			oh yes

					agnes
			and then

					martha
			what

					agnes
			she touches me down there with a
			cigarette
				martha gasps
			please mommy dont touch me like that
			any more ill be good  i wont be a baby
			any more

					martha
			agnes oh agnes agnes i want you to do
			something i want you to pretend that
			im your mother oh yes only this time
			i want you to tell me what youre feeling
			alright

					agnes
			im afraid

					martha
			please  i want to help you let me help
			you

					agnes
			alright

					martha
			agnes youre ugly what do you say
			of course you do agnes youre ugly
			what do you say

					agnes
			no im not

					martha
			are you pretty

					agnes
			yes

					martha
			agnes youre stupid

					agnes
			no im not

					martha
			are you intelligent

					agnes
				more forcefully
			yes i am

					martha
			youre a mistake

					agnes
				shouting
			im not mistake im here arent i
			how can i be a mistake if im really
			here god doesnt make mistakes
			youre a mistake

	agnes is half shouting  half crying martha holds on to her

					martha
			oh agnes oh agnes its alright its
			alright its alright its alright
			i love you

					agnes
			do you really love me or are you just
			saying that

					martha
			i really love you

					agnes
			as much as mother miriam does

					martha
			as much as god loves you


55   int  agnes old room  day

	martha is in there by herself smoking the elderly nun appears
at the door

					elderly nun
			ive been watching we were fine till
			she came she brought the devil here
				makes the sign
				of the cross
			there was blood on her hand that night

					martha
			agnes
				the nun shakes
				her head
			who  mother superior

					elderly nun
			in french
			

					martha
			what

					elderly nun
			look into the convent records

					martha
			sister

	but the nun has gone walking quickly away down the corridor


56   int  record room  day

	sister  enters to find martha going through a cabinet

					martha
				slightly guiltily
			oh good afternoon sister i im
			looking for some biographical data
			on sister agnes and mother said i
			might find it here

	the sister smiles goes to another cabinet extracts a file and
hands it to
	her

					martha
			thank you

	the sister nods and without a word leaves the room martha
waits until she has gone then opens the cabinet and pulls out
another file glancing at the    door she compares the two files
they both have the same surname burchetti  the the door opens and
mother miriam is standing there


					martha
			you lied to me

					mother miriam
			about what

					martha
				brandishing the files
			your niece

					mother miriam
			i didnt tell you because i didnt
			think it was important

					martha
			no it just makes you doubly
		responsible doesnt it

					mother miriam
			i never saw agnes until she set foot
			in this convent my sister ran away
			from home we lost touch with her
			and when my husband died and i came
			here she wrote to me and asked me if
			i would take care of agnes in case
			anything happened

					martha
			and agnes father

	mother miriam turns out of the room martha goes after her

					mother miriam
			it could have been any one of a dozen
			men from what my sister told me


57   int  corridor  day

	continuing just outside the record room

					mother miriam cont
			she was afraid that agnes would
			follow in her footsteps she did
			everything she could to prevent it

					martha
			like keeping her home from school

						mother miriam
			yes

					martha
			listening to angels

					mother miriam
			she drank too much thats what killed
			her

					martha
			do you know what she did to her

					mother miriam
			i dont think i care to know

					martha
			she molested her

					mother miriam
			oh dear god

					martha
			there is more here than meets the eye
			isnt there  lots of dirty little secrets

					mother miriam
				crying
			oh god if only id known

					martha
			why didnt you  you knew she was
			keeping her home from school you
			knew she was an alcoholic

					mother miriam
			i knew that after the fact

					martha
			why didnt you do anything to stop her

					mother miriam
			because i didnt know
				she leaves

					martha
			oh god

										dissolve to

58   int  police station larrys office  day

	larry is interviewing a young prostitute in french martha
appears at the  door

					martha
			larry

					larry
			marty what are you doing here

					martha
			larry theres got to be something
			missing

					larry
			i gave you the pictures marty what
			else do you want

					martha
			something they that they overlooked

					larry
			what  you think that the girl is
			innocent

					martha
			i dont know

					larry
			you got to be crazy

	larry pulls out a pack of cigarettes gives one to martha and
to the
prostitute

					martha
			larry

					larry
			whats the matter with you youve
			seen the reports its a cut and dried
			case

					martha
			maybe theres something thats not
			in the report that should be

					larry
			youre too involved marty
				lights her cigarette
			jesus look at you why dont you
			turn this case over to someone else

	larry lights his own cigarette and comes over to martha

					larry cont
			ill ask around see what i come up
			with in the meantime you go home
			and get some sleep

					martha
			thanks
				she leaves

					larry
				calling after her
			if i find anything ill call you


59   int  marthas apartment  night

	martha takes off her coat moves across the room turning on
lights she
	flicks the answerphone on her cat meows

					secretary vo
			hi marty its helen mrs davenport
			called and was very upset that youd
			missed her appointment she wants
			you to call her at home oh and a couple
			of reporters have been trying to get a
			hold of you about sister agnes they
			seem persistent and they may try to
			reach you at home i didnt give them
			number

	some whirs and beeps martha goes into the bathroom

					reporter vo
				french accent
			hallo doctor livingston my name is
			 im doing a sunday article on
			sister agnes for the gazette i would
			appreciate it if you would give me a
			phone call on 9422424

		more beeps and whirs martha starts to undress

					larry vo
			hi marty its me listen i just
			talked with detective crawley who
			was at the convent she said that
			there was one thing that bothered her
			that didnt make it into the report
			the waste paper basket the one in
			agnes room
				martha freezes in the
				middle of lighting up
			none of the other nuns had one bye

	martha rushes over to the answerphone and rewinds it

					larry vo
			 her that didnt make it into the
			report the waste paper basket the
			one in agnes room none of the other
			nuns had one bye

	martha looks thoughtful and flicks off the desk lamp


60   int  convent chapel  day

	father martineau is saying mass all the sisters are there
singing together	father martineau places the host in the sconce
incences it and raises it
	up close on individual nuns at prayer including agnes

										dissolve to

61   int  barn  day

	mother miriam is kneeling in the doorway of the barn praying
when martha	enters mother miriam pauses

					martha
			ive gotten the courts permission
			to hypnotise her

	mother miriam makes the sign of the cross and stands up

					mother miriam
			and my permission

						martha
			id like yours too

	mother miriam grabs a bucket and moves across the barn martha
follows her

					mother miriam
			well see about that

					martha
			dont deny it

					mother miriam
			i havent decided yet

					martha
			the womans health is at stake

					mother miriam
			her spiritual health

					martha
			i dont give a damn about her spiritual
			health

					mother miriam
			i know you dont

	mother miriam starts shovelling grain into the bucket

					martha
			sentence her and be done with it thats
			what youre saying and i

					mother miriam

			i am saying distorted a beautifully
			simple woman

					martha
			an unhappy woman

					mother miriam
			shes happy with us and she could go
			on being happy if she was left alone

					martha
			then why did you call the police in the
			first place mother huh

					martha cont
			why didnt you just throw the baby into
			the incinerator and be done with it

					mother miriam
			because i am a moral person

					martha
			bullshit

					mother miriam
			bullshit yourself

					martha
			catholic church doesnt have a corner
			on morality

					mother miriam
			who said anything about the catholic
			church

					martha
			you just said

					mother miriam
			what the hell has the catholic church
			got to do with you

					martha
			nothing

					mother miriam
			what have we done to hurt you  and
			dont deny it i can smell an excatholic
			a mile away what did we do  burn a
			few heretics sell some indulgences
			that was in the days when the church
			was a ruling body we let governments
			do those things today so what did we
			do to you eh  you wanted to neck in the
			back seat of a car when you were fifteen
			and you couldnt because it was a sin

	this time it is martha who walks away and mother miriam who
follows her

					mother miriam cont
			so instead of questioning that one rule

					martha
				halting
			it wasnt sex it was a lot of things but
			it wasnt sex you know when i was in
			the first grade my best friend was run
			over on the way to school you know what
			the nun said  she died because she hadnt
			said her morning prayers

					mother miriam
			stupid woman and thats all

					martha
			thats all  thats enough  she was a
			beautiful little girl

					mother miriam
			and what has that to do with it

					martha
			i wasnt i wasnt she was the pretty one
			she died why not me  i never said my
			morning prayers and i was ugly i was
			scrawny i had buck teeth and freckles all
			over my face do you know what the nun
			called me sister mary clitus called me
			polkadot livingston

					mother miriam
			so you left the church because you had
			freckles

					martha
			no because i yeah yeah i left the
			church cause i had freckles

	they both cannot help laughing at this absurdity


62   ext  courtyard  day

	a couple of nuns walk across the courtyard another is
meditating alone on
	a bench a nun kisses a dove and lets it fly away


63   ext  gazebo  day

	it is out the back of the convent near the belltower mother
miriam and
martha are sitting there talking martha is smoking

					mother miriam
			when i was a child i used to hear my
			guardian angel she sang to me till i
			was six years old thats when i stopped
			listening but i remember the voice a
			few years ago i looked at myself and saw
			nothing but a nun who was certain of nothing
			not even of heaven not even of god and
			then one evening i saw agnes standing by

			her window singing and all my doubts about
			myself and god were gone in that one moment
			i recognized the voice please dont take it
			away from me again doctor livingston those
			years after six were very bleak

					martha
			my sister died in a convent and its her
			voice i hear
				a long pause
			does my smoking bother you

					mother miriam
			no it reminds me

					martha
			would you like one  huh

					mother miriam
			id love one

	martha hands her a cigarette and lights it for her mother
miriam coughs a
	lot martha pats her on the back

					mother miriam
			im out of prac
				cough
			 practice
				cough

					martha
			all right

						mother miriam
			fine thanks

					martha
			do you suppose the saints would have
			smoked if tobacco had been popular
			back then

					mother miriam
			undoubtedly not the ascetics of course
			but well saint thomas more

					martha
				chuckles
			long thin and filtered

					mother miriam
			saint ignatius would smoke cigars and
			stub them out on the soles of his bare
			feet
				they roar with laughter
			and of course distorted

					martha
			hand rolled

					mother miriam
			even christ would partake socially

					martha
			saint peter

					mother miriam
			pipe

					martha
			right

					mother miriam
			mary magdelen

					martha
				imitating
			oh youve come a long way baby

					mother miriam
			and saint john would chew tobacco

	more laughter then the moment because more serious

					martha
			right
				a pause
			what do you suppose todays saints
			are smoking

					mother miriam
			there are no saints today good people
			yes but extraordinarily good people
			those im afraid we are sorely lacking

					martha
			do you think they ever existed

					mother miriam
			yes i do

					martha
			do you want to become one

					mother miriam
			become  one is born a saint

					martha
			well you can try cant you to be good

					mother miriam
			yes but goodness has very little to do
			with it not all the saints were good
			in fact some of them were a little crazy
			but they were still attached to god
			agnes has that birth
				she stands
			no more were born we live we die
			no room for miracles
				martha gets up too
			oh my dear how i miss the miracles

	they start walking back to the convent

					martha
			do you think agnes is still attached to
			god

					mother miriam
			listen to her singing

					martha
				a pause
			id like to begin

					mother miriam
			begin what

					martha
			the hypnotism do you still disapprove

					mother miriam
			would it stop you if i did

					martha
			no

	they both halt

					mother miriam
			may i be present

					martha
			of course

					mother miriam
			then lets begin


64   int  attic room  day

	the room is painted white and completely empty with a steeply
sloping    ceiling agnes is sitting on a chair with her eyes closed
already under   hypnosis martha and mother miriam are facing her

					martha
			youre listening to a chorus of angels
			the music surrounds you like a
			warm and comfortable pool of water
			and while youre sleeping youre
			going to be able to recall all the things
			that we want you to remember and
			when i count to three and clap my hands
			youll no longer be hypnotised can you
			hear me

					agnes
			yes

					martha
			who am i

					agnes
			doctor livingston

					martha
			and why am i here

					agnes
			to help me

					martha
			good would you like to tell me why
			youre here

					agnes
			because im in trouble

					martha
			what kind of trouble
				no answer
			what kind of trouble agnes

	martha starts to walk around behind agnes

					agnes
			im frightened

					martha
			of what

					agnes
			of telling you

					martha
			but its easy its just a breath with
			sound say it what kind of trouble

					agnes
				a pause
			i had a baby

	both martha and mother miriam react with some degree of relief

					martha
			how did you have a baby

					agnes
			it came out of me

					martha
			did you know what was going to come
			out

					agnes
			yes

					martha
			did you want it to come out

					agnes
			no

					martha
			why

					agnes
			because i was afraid

					martha
			why were you afraid

					agnes
			because i wasnt worthy

					martha
			to be a mother

					agnes
			yes

					martha
			why

					agnes
			may i open my eyes now

					martha
			no not yet agnes very soon but not
			yet how did the baby get into you

					agnes
			it grew

					martha
			what made it grow  do you know

					agnes
			yes

					martha
			would you like to tell me

					agnes
			no

					martha
			did anyone else know about the baby

					agnes
			i cant tell you that

					martha
			will she be angry

					agnes
			she made me promise not to

					martha
			who  who made you promise
				no answer
			its alright agnes its alright
				a pause
			lets go to your room its the night
			about six weeks ago when you were
			very sick

					agnes
			im afraid

					martha
			oh dont be im here its alright
			i want you to tell me what you did
			before you went to bed

					agnes
			i ate

					martha
			hm hmm what did you have for
			dinner

					agnes
			fish
				distastefully
			 brussel sprouts

					martha
			you dont like brussel sprouts

					agnes
			i hate them

	martha and mother miriam cant help smiling

					martha
			and then what happened

					agnes
			we went to chapel for vespers

					martha
			hm hmm

					agnes
			i left early because i wasnt feeling
			very well

	suddenly agnes leaps up from her chair

					martha
			what is it

					agnes
			someones following me

					martha
			who

					agnes
			sister marguerite i think

					martha
			was it sister marguerite who knew
			about the baby
				no answer
			alright agnes i want you to see your
			room as you saw it on that night

					martha cont
			open your eyes
				she opens them
			what do you see

					agnes
			my bed

					martha
			what else

					agnes
			a crucifix

					martha
			above the bed  any anything else
			what do you you see something
			different  what is it

					agnes
				puzzled
			a wastepaper basket

					martha
			do you know who put it there

					agnes
			no

					martha
			what do you think its there for

					agnes
			for me to get sick in

					martha
			are you ill

					agnes
			yes

					martha
			what do you feel

					agnes
			i feel as if ive eaten glass

					martha
			what do you do

					agnes
			i have to throw up

	and she falls to her knees retching horribly

					agnes cont
			i cant glass one of the sisters
			has fed me glass

					martha
			which one

					agnes
			i dont know which one distorted

					martha
			of what

					agnes
			of me oh god  my god
				assumes the birth
				position and looks
				between her legs
			water its all water

					martha
			why isnt anyone coming

					agnes
				trying to wipe up
				the water
			they cant hear me thats why
				in terrible pain
			oh god i dont wanna

					mother miriam
				to martha
			stop her

	then agnes tries to crawl away as though terrified of
something

					martha
			what is it

					agnes

			please get away from me

					martha
			who

					agnes
			go away i dont want you here

					martha
			is someone in the room with you

					agnes
			no dont hit me please

					mother miriam
			stop this shell hurt herself
				stepping forward
			im not going to allow this

					martha
				hauling her away
			no no i said leave her alone

					agnes
				still screaming

			youre trying to take my baby trying
			to take my baby no
				then quietly
			it wasnt my fault mommy it was a
			mistake mommy

					martha
			alright agnes its alright one two
			three
				claps her hands
				agnes comes to
			its alright its me doctor livingston
			its alright alright thankyou agnes
			thankyou how do you feel

					agnes
			frightened

					martha
			do you remember what just happened

					agnes
				a long pause
			yes

					martha
			thats good do you feel well enough
			to stand

					agnes
			yes

	martha helps her to her feet agnes clings to her

					martha
			there you go its alright its alright
			its all over its alright agnes thats
			right thats right


65   ext  land registry  day

	martha approaches the building and enters it


66   int  record room  day

	the camera tracks through shelves of ancient records and maps

					martha off
			ah excuse me hallo im looking
			for some ah ground plans for the
			ah saint marie madeleine convent
			in distorted

					man off
				answers in french

		martha and a middle aged official come into view he stops
at a long set of	 drawers and starts looking through it

					man
				in french


					martha
				replies in french

					man
		oh very interesting i guess
				he pulls out a
				folder of plans
		excuse me

	he sets the folder down on a table and starts going through it
they both
look at the plans

					man cont
			ah viola  this has everything even
			the secret entrance they all had
			that usually to get from building to
			building in the snow
				he indicates on
				the plan
			 like that one

					martha
				murmurs
			thats how he got in or she got
			out

					man
			oh excuse me what did you say

					martha
			nothing may i take some notes

					man
			oh yes distorted

	martha starts drawing a rough plan


67   int  crypt  day

	the crypt is deserted but candles are burning in front of a
statue of saint michael martha walks over to itlights a candle and
goes behind it and
	finds a stairway there leading underground she goes down
into


68   int  tunnel  day

	martha walks through the dimly lit passage she stops for a
moment to look
	at a cross carved on the stone floor then continues finally
she reaches
	more steps and goes up into the


69   int  barn  day

	martha emerges through a trapdoor in to the barn which is full
of doves it    begins to make sense for her


70   ext  city  day

	various closeups of famous statues a bell is tolling two nuns
come out of
	a building down streets across the road as though traffic did
not exist
	and into another building


71   int  lift  day

	the nuns are sister anne and mother miriam in the lift an
office girl
	checks her lipstick in the reflective metal walls the lift
stops and the
	sisters get off


72   int  corridor  day

	they walk down the modern carpeted corridor into


73   int  marthas office  day

	mother miriam addresses the secretary helen

					mother miriam
			is the doctor in her office

					helen
			ah who shall i say is calling

					mother miriam
				grimly
			general macarthur

	she heads onto marthas office helen jumps up after her

					helen
			just a minute please you cant go in
			there

	mother miriam pushes the door open to reveal martha

						martha
				standing
			its its alright helen just close
			the door

	mother miriam walks in and throws some papers down onto
marthas desk

					mother miriam
			ive just met with the bishop were
			taking you off the case

					martha
				picking up the papers
			youre what

					mother miriam
			if we want to hire a psychiatrist for
			agnes well find our own thank you
				starts to leave

					martha
			one that will ask the questions you
			want asked

					mother miriam
				halting
			one that will approach this matter
			with some objectivity and respect

					martha
			for the church

					mother miriam
			for agnes

					martha
			you think shes a saint

					mother miriam
			shes been touched by god yes

					martha
			how  how  she hallucinates stops
			eating and bleeds spontaneously is
			that supposed to convince me she
			shouldnt be touched give me a miracle

					mother miriam
			the father

					martha
			who is he

					mother miriam
			why must he be anybody

					martha
				laughs and sits down
			my god youre as crazy as

					mother miriam
			stop laughing i dont say its the truth
			im saying

					martha
			how distorted 

					mother miriam
			dont be ridiculous

					martha
			well give me a reasonable explanation

					mother miriam
			a miracle is an event without an
			explanation if shes capable of putting
			a hole in her hand without benefit of a
			nail why couldnt she split a cell in her
			womb

					martha
			this is insane

					mother miriam
			there as no man in the convent on that
			night and no way for any man to get in
			or out

					martha
			youre saying god did it

					mother miriam

			no thats as much as saying father
			martineau did it im saying god
			permitted it

					martha
			but how did it happen

					mother miriam
			youll never find the answer for
			everything god did

					martha
			i thought you didnt believe in miracles
			today mother

					mother miriam
			but i want the opportunity to believe
			i want the choice to believe

					martha
			but what you are choosing to believe
			is a lie because you wont face the fact
			that she was raped or seduced
			or that she did the seducing

					mother miriam
			she is an innocent

					martha
			but she is not an enigma mother
			everything that agnes has done is
			explainable from modern psychiatry
			one two three right down the line

					mother miriam
			thats what you believe she is  the
			sum of her psychological parts

					martha
			thats what i have to believe

					mother miriam
			then why are you so obsessed with her
			youre losing sleep over her
				martha gets up disturbed
			youre thinking about her all the time
			youre bent on saving her why

	martha has no answer

					mother miriam cont
				calmer
			im not accusing im recognizing

					martha
			theres a tunnel out of the crypt into
			the barn did you know about that
			theres an answer mother thats how
			she got out

					mother miriam
			thats crazy how could she find out
			about it

					martha
			somebody told her

					mother miriam
			who  that tun that tunnel hasnt
			been used in fifty years

					martha
			oh would you stop lying mother

					mother miriam
			why would i lie

					martha
			because its murder were talking about
			arent you concerned about what she told
			us about the other person in her room

					mother miriam
			im concerned about her health

					martha
			who was that person mother  was it
			you

					mother miriam
			if you believe this is murder it is the
			crown attorney you have to talk to not
			me and definitely not agnes

	she goes out and slams the door


74   ext  pond  day

	after a couple of establishing shots of the convent the nuns
are shown ice   skating on the frozen pond they are quite
uninhibited like little
	children their singing off from the chapel continues until
the end of
	scene 78


75   int  chapel  day

	sister genevieve the other novice is being consecrated she
approaches the  altar all dressed in white carrying a single candle
and kneels down


76   int  law courts  day

	martha and justice leveau come up the steps and into the
corridor

					martha
			all i want is one more week

					leveau
			why
				  continues in french
					then
			 youve done nothing to show any progress

					martha
			yes thats because im getting to her

					leveau
			youre getting to all of us martha lets
			face it

					martha
			ill have a decision by next week

					leveau
			its gone on long enough youre out

					martha
			oh joe joe she didnt kill the baby

					leveau
				halting
			you have proof

					martha
			ill have it

						leveau
			when

					martha
			next week


					leveau
				walking on
			no no no

					martha
			i can get you new evidence next week

					leveau
			no

					martha
			tomorrow tomorrow ill get it by
			tomorrow i will

	they reach the door of leveaus office he thinks

					leveau
			yes demain 


77   int  chapel  day

	the scene consists of a number of shots dissolving into one
another sister genevieve lying face down in front of the bishop
genevieve praying on her   knees her family 4 watching from
behind the grilled gate genevieves
	hair being cut her joy at the habit being fitted to her
running out to
	join her family a jolly old singalong on the piano this time
the nuns
	singing along from    behind the gate


78   ext  convent  day

	martha drives up in her car and walks across the now snow
covered grounds to    the convent


79   int  mother miriams office  day

	mother miriam is working away at her desk when a nun
interrupts singing   from the party can faintly be heard

						nun off
			excuse me mother doctor livingston
			is here

	mother miriam nods tiredly and goes to meet martha at he door
martha hands    her a court order mother miriam reads it briefly
and hands it back

					mother miriam
			this is permission to take her apart

					martha
			where is she

					mother miriam
			hasnt she had enough

					martha
			i have a few more questions to ask her

					mother miriam
			my god but youre determined

	they move back into the room

					martha
			who knew she was pregnant

					mother miriam
			why do you insist upon pressing

					martha
			was it you

					mother miriam
			is it because shes a nun

					martha
			did you know she was pregnant

					mother miriam
			yes

					martha
			and you didnt send her to a doctor

					mother miriam
			i didnt guess until it was too late

					martha
			for what  an abortion

					mother miriam
			oh dont be ridiculous

					martha
			too late for what

					mother miriam
			i dont know too late to stop it

					martha
			the baby

					mother miriam
			the scandal

					martha
			you went to the room to help with
			the birth

					mother miriam
			she didnt want any help

					martha
			you wanted that child out of the way

					mother miriam
			thats a lie

					martha
			you hid the wastepaper basket in her
			room

					mother miriam
			i didnt hide it i put it there for the
			blood and the dirty sheets

					martha
			and the baby

					mother miriam
			no

					martha
			you tied the cord around its neck

					mother miriam
			i wanted her to have it when noone else
			was around they would have taken the
			baby to a hospital and left it with them
			but it was such a difficult birth there
			was so much blood and i panicked

					martha
			before or after you killed the child

					mother miriam
			i left it with her and i went for help

					martha
			i doubt thats what shed say

					mother miriam
			then shes a liar


80   int  attic room  day

	it is the same as before except that this time martha and
mother miriam are	standing

					martha
			agnes can you hear me

					agnes
			yes

					martha
			i want you to remember if you can a
			night last january the night sister
			paul died do you remember

	there is a flash cut to sister paul being annointed agnes
stirs slightly

					martha cont
			whats the matter

	there is another flash cut this time of sister paul saying
that mysterious word that we could not previously understand

					agnes
			she said michael

					martha
			what did she mean

	there is a third flash cut of the shrine of saint michael in
the crypt

					agnes
			the statue she had shown it to me
			the day before

					martha
			and the passage to the barn

					agnes
			yes

					martha
			why

					agnes
			so i could go to him

					martha
			who

					agnes
			him

					martha
			how did she know about him

					agnes
			shed seen him too

					martha
			where

					agnes
			from the belltower the day she before
			she died

					martha
			so she sent you

					agnes
			yes


81   int  tunnel  night

	in flashback  agnes is walking alone through the tunnel
carrying an oil
	lamp

					martha vo
			what happened

	agnes keeps walking and finally goes up the steps into


82   int  barn  night

	still in flashback agnes emerges into the barn the doves flap
about as
	agnes	 moves nervously through the barn

					agnes vo
			hes here


83   int  attic room  day

	back to the present

					martha
			are you frightened

					agnes
		yes


84   int  barn  night

	in flashback  the doves continue to make flapping and bumping
sounds as
	they fly around the barn

					agnes
			hallo


85   int  attic room  day

	in the present

					agnes
			 where are you


86   int  barn  night

	in flashback

					agnes
			is it you


	then she seems to be talking to someone although we can see
nothing except  the doves

					agnes cont
			i im afraid yes yes i do
			why me wait i want to see you


					martha vo
			what do you see


87   int  attic room  day

	in the present

					agnes
			halos


88   int  barn  night

	in flashback  agnes is still in the barn but now she is lying
on her back
	still all we can see are doves flashing in the light

					agnes vo
			 dividing and dividing feathers and
			starts falling falling into the iris of
			gods eye oh oh its its so
			lovely its so blue yellow
			blood wings brown blood

	and she lifts up her hands


89   int  attic room  day

	in the present  as she lifts up her hands agnes is horrified
to see two
	holes in her palms weeping blood

					agnes
			his blood my god

	martha and mother miriam are equally shocked

					martha
			oh agnes

	agnes runs terrified over to the walls blood pouring over her
white habit    mother miriam rushes after her

					agnes
			its bleeding im bleeding
			my god it wont stop i cant get it
			to stop
				to mother miriam
			let go of me i wish you were dead

					martha
				trying to hold her
			agnes agnes

	agnes breaks free and runs over to another wall smearing it too
with blood	martha follows her

					agnes
			stay away from me

					martha
			agnes it had nothing to do with the
			hand of god he did a terrible thing
			to you do you understand

					agnes
			no

					martha
			he frightened you and he hurt you its
			not your fault its his fault tell us
			who he is so we can find him stop
			him from doing this to other women

					agnes
			not your fault

					martha
			agnes who did you see

					agnes
			i hate him

						martha
			of course you do who was it

					agnes
			i hate him for what he did to me

					martha
			yes

					agnes
			for what he made me go through

					martha
			who

					agnes
			i hate him

					martha
			agnes who did this to you

	agnes flings her arms back against the wall

					agnes
			god  it was god
				sinks to her knees
			and now ill burn in hell because i
			hate him

					martha
			agnes you wont burn in hell its
			alright to hate him

					mother miriam
			thats enough

					martha
			agnes what happened to the baby

					mother miriam
				shouting
			she cant remember

					martha
			what happened to the baby

					agnes
			it was dead

					martha
			it was alive wasnt it

					agnes
			i dont remember

					mother miriam
				screaming
			oh dont do this

					martha
			wasnt it

					agnes
			yes

	somehow this declaration seems to calm them down somewhat
mother miriam   is looking utterly resigned

					martha
			mother miriam was with you wasnt
			she

					agnes
			yes

					martha
			she took the baby in her arms

					agnes
			yes

					martha
			you saw it all didnt you

					agnes
			yes

					martha
			and then what did she do
				no answer
			agnes what did she do

					agnes
			she left me alone with that little
			thing and i looked at it and i thought
			this is a mistake but its my mistake
			not mommys gods mistake

					agnes cont
			i thought i i can save her
				she raises her hands
			i can give her back to god

					martha
			what did you do

					agnes
			i put her to sleep

					martha
			h how

					agnes
			i tied the cord around her neck
			wrapped her in the bloody sheets
			and stuffed her in the trash can

	mother miriam gives a shuddering sigh makes the sign of the
cross and
prays martha claps her hands lightly together once


90   ext  city  day

	a shaft of sunlight shines through the winter clouds onto the
city angle on  the courthouse


91   int  court room  day

	all the main characters are present eve lyon martha agnes
sister	marguerite and mother miriam justice leveau is summing
up

					leveau
			in view of the situation as it now
			stands and the testimony given here
			this morning it seems quite clear
			that the defendant was in no manner
			responsible for her actions it is
			therefore the judgement of this court
			that she be returned to the convent of
			marie madeleine where she will be cared
			for under proper medical supervision by
			a visiting physician

	both martha and mother miriam show relief at this justice
leveau continues
	to sum up in french when suddenly agnes stands up


						leveau cont
				surprised
			oui do you have something to say

					agnes
				a long pause
			i stood in the window of my room
			every night for a week and one night
			i heard the most beautiful voice
			imaginable and when i looked i saw
			the moon shining down on him for six
			nights he sang to me songs id never
			heard and on the seventh night he
			opened his wings and lay on top of me
			all the while he sang 
				sings
			charlie sweet charlie sweet
			charlies a

					leveau
			please remove her from the court

	martha and mother miriam step forward uncertainly

					leveau
			would someone please remove the
			defendant from the courtroom
				continues in french

	the nuns lead agnes still singing past martha and out of the
court

										dissolve to

92   ext  convent  day

	it is full winter many shots of the convent and surroundings
dissolving
	into one another

					martha vo
			i dont know the meaning behind the
			song she sang perhaps it was a song
			of seduction and the father was a
			fieldhand perhaps the song was simply
			a lullaby that she remembered from many
			years ago and the father was hope and
			and love and desire and a belief in
			 miracles

	the nuns are seen walking together through the snow back to the
convent over    which agnes singing can be heard

					martha vo
			i want to believe that she was blessed
			and i do miss her and i hope that shes
			left something some little part of
			herself with me that would be miracle
			enough wouldnt it

										dissolve to

93   ext  top of belltower  day

	where agnes is singing her song among the doves she stops
singing and the music fades in on the same key agnes gently takes
on of the doves and lets
	it fly away across the snowy landscape

	fade out
	end titles