anastasia

fade in

on a wellworn photograph album an elderly womans
hand touched the album caressing it lovingly for a
moment as we hear her voice

                       tatiana oc
          once we lived in an enchanted
          world   

she opend the album to reveal a black and white
photograph of the palace at st petersberg on a
brilliant summer day

                       tatiana cont
          a world of tsars and princesses
          and elegant palaces   

camera moves closer to the picture   

                       tatiana cont
          and grand parties   

the photo dissolves into reality in brilliant color as
the day turns into night and the summer cools into
winter we see the palace at night blanketed in a
beautiful almost glowing snow as hourse drawn carriages
pull up to the front door

                       tatiana cont
          a beautiful magical time   

move into the palace

                       tatiana cont
          that would soon be gone
          forever   

int  palace at st petersberg  night

elegant royalists mingle around the main hall as an
orchestra plays

all eyes turn to the glass doors of two elevadors which
descend grandly on either side of a beautiful staircase
through the glass doors we see tatiana the dowager
empress 60 imperious and bedecked with jewels she is
seemingly unapproachable tsar nicholas and his son are
with her in the other elevador alexandra and her
daughters  well  all her daughters except   

anastasia eight years old and apparently late for the
party rushes down the upstairs hallway followed by a
servent sonya 16  who is trying to catch up with
anastasia to tie a large ribbon in her long dark hair

                       sonya
                  whispering
          princess anastasia  youre
          late and its all my  fault

                       anastasia
          dont worry sonya no onell
          notice   

just then sonya lassoes the ribbon around her hair
stopping anastasia with a 

                       anastasia
                  loudly
              owwwwwwwww

all eyes turn to anastasia who once she realizes that
shes the center of attention flashes a mischievous
smile and descends the staircase in grand style as the
ribbon falls out of her hair and down her back
anastasia kicks it to sonya without breaking stride

tatiana sees her and cant help but smile

the music suddenly becomes  a flourish of trumpets
servents open the elevador doors as the royal family
steps out and begins a proccession through their
subjects tatiana holds out her arm to anastasia as she
makes it to tatianas side just in time anastasia has
a beautiful but slightly impish face dominated by
large blue mischievous eyes she an abundance of 
energy and confidence for a girl her agethe rulars of russia  opening number

   the elegant guests sing their admiration as the
beautiful and happy romanov family makes its entrance
into the ball theyre the  pride of all russia
vladimir invites sophie to dance and the entire
glittering assembly assembly swings into a glorious sweeping 
waltz singing their certainty that the romanovs will
rule foreverduring the above the ball is in full swing beautiful
couples swirls across the dance floor including
anastasia dancing gracefully with her father

under a long buffet table we see dmitri 11 darkly
handsome dressed in ragged servant clothes with a
shock of dark hair which continuoually falls accross his
eyes as watches the guest enviously anastasia still
waltzing with her father sees him servents cross the
room carrying a trays of beautiful tropical fruit the
guests ew and ah at the sumptuous fruit anastasia
sees dmitri eyeing it hungrily and without missing a
dance step she grabs an orange off thr tray and tosses
it to dmitri he catches it and smiles broadly at her

suddenly a hand grabs dmitri and pulls him out from
under the table its ivar the head servent who pulls
dmitri into an open wall panel

                       ivar
                  angrily
          youre a servent never forget
          your place

                       dmitiri
                  defiant
          someday my place will be out
          there

                       ivar
          never youre a peasant
          dmitri back in the kitchenrulars of russia cont

   underscore continues as dmitri is dragged from his
hiding place under the table and back to the kitchen
its like the moscow circus back there comic musical
confusion the servants sing about their demanding
employers and mockingly imitate their behavior  they
imply that they have their own party  that change is
coming

   while back in the ballroom the royalists are
oblivious to the servants discontent and sing their
satisfaction with their own lives

   dramatic underscore continues though the following
sceneson tatiana

in a large thronelike chair tatiana is very serious
and very regal she slides over to make room for
anastasia who sits next to her


                       tatiana
          why were you so late tonight 

                       anastasia
          i was showing sonya
          something   

                       tatiana
          what were you showing her

                       anastasia
                  sheepishly
          how to read

                       tatiana
          i thought you were told not to
          tutor your servants anymore

                       anastasia
          i know but i had to because   

anastasia looks up at tatiana and sees her smile with
pride  anastasia knows she doesnt have to explain

                       anastasia
                  cuddling
          oh grandmama why do you have
          to go back to paris

                       tatiana
          its where ive made my home
          but i do have something for
          you   

tatiana reaches from behind the chair and brings out a
beautiful music box  tatiana takes the key a small
silver and enamel flower on a silver neck chain and
winds it up music begins she hands anastasia the key

close up

the key bearing the inscription together in paris

                       anastasia
          together in paris oh when
          can we be together in paris

                       tatiana
          when youre older   

anastasia makes a disgruntled face tatiana laughs


                       tatiana
          until then whenever you hear
          this song think of me and know
          that im waiting for you

tatiana puts the key around anastasias neck and they
embrace then suddenly   

on the grand chandelier

the lights begin to fade in and out

group shot

as people in the ballroom look around bewildered then
a whirlwind kicks up sending everyone off the dance
floor as the whirlwind becomes a tornado

suddenly an albino bat bartok with huge eyes springs
out of the funnel screeching and swooping over the
crowd causing everyone to duck and cover their heads in
fear

the tornada reaches its peak and explodes in smoke 
leaving rasputin standing alone in the middle of the
floor he is of indeterminate age towering over other
men in the room his most striking feature are his eyes
 which at this moment are burning a fiery red he is
dressed in a flowing black monks robe with a satin rope
tied around his waist connected to the rope is a
glowing reliquary a mystical lantern

various shots

of nicholas alexandra sophie and vladimir dmitri
peeking out ofthe wallpanel tatiana and anastasia
all of whom are frightened

nicholas

as he gathers his son and wife to his side

                       nicholas
          rasputin  youre alive   

                       rasputin
                  advancing
          despite being shot poisoned
          and thrown into an icy river   
          yes

                       nicholas
                  honestly
          i had nothing to do with it

                       rasputin
          you gave the orders

                       nicholas
          i did no such thing

                       rasputin
          after all ive done for your
          family  you tried to kill
          meeeeee   

rasputin swings the reliquary wrapping himself in smoke
which seems to grow larger eerie moaning noises come
from the reliquary people back awayin terror

                       rasputin cont
          the romanov dynasty ends here
          you your wife and children
          will all die within the
          fortnight

                       anastasia
          no

anastasia leaves tatiana and rushes to stand in front of
her father still holding her music box anastasias
shaking hands are the only thing that gives away her 
fear rasputin spins toward the voice

                       anastasia
          were not afraid of you

                       rasputin
                  furious
          you     my little babushka   
          youll be so much fun to kill 
          that ill save you for last

twirling the reliquary again the moans grow louder as
bartok circles around his head the smoke that emerges
seems to have almosy a human shape to it

                       rasputin
          this is the end of the romanov
          line  forever 

the tornada of smoke begins again whipping into a
frenzy and then exploding

the smoke clears and rasputin is gone as the lights
return to normal the romanov family all stand together
and try to look regal and in control once again

                       tatiana oc
          some say rasputin ad harnessed
          all the dark powers of evil and 
          that it was his curse which 
          brought about the end   

                                             dissolve to

the romanov family fades into a portrait of the family

                       tatiana oc
          i will never know for sure
          all i do know is that the
          beauty of our world was soon
          gone     forever   

a lick of bright orange flame creeps into viewrulers of russia  vocal reprise

   huge ominous vocals reprise the onceglorious watlz
of the romanovs heralding the end of their world and
underscoring the coming revolutionpull back

to see the portrait a huge frieze which covers an
entire entire wall singeing as the flame creeps up the nearby
drapery tinting the room in a red glow

a screaming mob some in uniform some not has crashed
into the palace and is heading up the stairs a few in
the mob fire off orange rifle shots

int anastasias bedroom  night

anastasia bolts up hearing the shots her music box is
next to her on her nightstand

int hallway  night

mass confusion as the mob is met by a few servants who
try to stop them from advancing more shots

on the romanovs

still in nightclothes are being rushed down the
hallway tatiana is next to anastasia as anastasia
stopsdead in her tracks

                       anastasia
          my music mox

anastasia turns around and runs back down the hall
tatiana tries to stop her

                       tatiana
          anastasia no

its too late anastasia fights her way back into her
room with tatiana following her

from the other end of the hallway

we see dmitri watching amidst all the confusion

int anastasias bedroom  night

anastasia grabs her music box as tatiana rushes in

                       tatiana
          hurry child

loud rifle shots are heard as dmitri bursts into the
room closing the door behind him

                       dmitri
          no  this way

dmitri runs to a wall panel and thows his weight
against it it opens revealing a passage way

                       dmitri cont
          go  run  out the servants
          quarters

tatiana enormously grateful looks at dmitri as he
flips his hair out of his face unconsciously

                       dmitri
          go

tatiana goes in as dmitri shoves anastasia toward the
passageway knocking the music box out of her hand  she
reaches for it but hearing the mob voices growing
closer he pushes her through the panel without it

                       dmitri cont
          go

tatiana quickly follows anastasia into the passageway
and dmitri closes the panel just as the mob bursts in

                       dmitri cont
                  lying to the mob
          no ones here lets try the
          next room

the mob accepts the word of a peasant boy and rushes
out dmitri picks up the music box and looks sadly
toward the panel

ext train station  night

which is under siege by royalists trying to board the
overcrowded train and the revolutionaries who are trying
to stop them

a touring car pulls up right on the tracks behind the
caboose as the train starts to pull away

tatiana and anastasia climb out of the car and race for
the train fighting their way through the frenzied and
frightened crowd we hear shouts of the empress  let
her through which helps clear the way

anastasia reaches the train first then turns to see
tatiana trying to catch up

                       anastasia
          hurry grandmama

                       tatiana
          get on anastasia get on

anastasia refuses to board the train

up ahead

a mob of revolutionaries block the tracks with a truck

on anastasia

who pushes tatiana up the stairs of the caboose this
puts anastasia a few steps behind as the train speeds
up tatiana is gripped by other passengers as she
reaches out to anastasia

                       tatiana
          grab my hand

anastasia reaches up and takes tatianas hand

                       anastasia
          dont let go

close on

the two hands then suddenly her small hand is pulled
from tatianas grasp and falls out of the frame

                       tatiana oc
          anastasia

on anastasia

who has stumbled hitting the ground hard

on tatiana

horrified screaming

                       tatiana
          anastasia

tatiana rushes to jump off the train after her but is
caught and held back by the royalist passangers as the
train crashes through the truck and picks up speed

tatianas pov

anastasia rising from the ground her hand outstretched
but she is suddenly swallowed up by the mob

                                             superimpose

a black and white photograph

of anastasia in a happier time smilingunderscore  the music box themetatiana oc
          i never saw her again   

the photo album slowly closes  end opening numberdissolve to

ext orphanage  day

a gray and ugly postrevolution building with a sign
above the door that identifies it  young comrades
without parents

int orphanage  day

children of all ages clean the cold gray dormitory
their clothes are ragged and they look underfed

close on

anya 18 pretty despite the boys handmedown clothes
she is forced to wear is busy scrubbing the floor
unlike the others she is determined not to let her
surroundings get to her she hums a tune

the door suddenly slams open and gregor 8 and clearly
terrified comes running in followed by comrade
phlegmenkof  a huge woman carrying a switch

                       gregor
          anya anya

all of the other kids turn away not wanting to get
involved  anya focuses on gregor who  is shivering with
fright and on the verge of tears as phlegmenkof
approaches swinging the switch menacingly

                       phlegmenkof
          you cant get away from me
          now   

phlegmenkof advances on gregor  anya takes the scrub
brush and shoves it across the floor right under
phlegmenkofs unsuspecting foot  phlegmenkofs feet fly
out from under her and she smashes to the floor gregor
hops over her huge body and runs to anya for safety

some of the other kids glance over a chubby girl and a
very pretty little girl look at anya with greeat
admiration     someof the others think shes crazy

phlegmenkof rises covered with soap bubbles  and spins
on anya  who gives her a very innocent smile

                       phlegmenkof cont
          you you did this

some of the other children laugh as soap bubbles fly off
the enraged woman  she spins on them her back to anya

                       phlegmenkof cont
          brats  therell be no supper
          for any of you  back to work

anya behind phlegmenkof mimics her outraged face and
angry gestures perfectly  as the children laugh harder

phlegmenkof spins andalmostcatches anya  she advances
on anya as gregor hides behind her legs

                       anya
          dont touch him 

                       phlegmenkof
                  to anya
          you ragged skinny little
          nothing  i have had just about
          enough of you   

phlegmenkof raises her hand to slap anya who hold her
ground  suddenly phlegmenkof sniffs the air

on the kids

as the horrible smell reaches them too  they all make
faces and hold their noses

on phlegmenkof

who first sniffs under her raised arm then realized the
cause of the stench   

                       phlegmenkof cont
          comrade serebreakov

she tries to straighten herself out nervously  this
must be someone very important

comrade serebreakov stands in the doorway lecherously
eyeing the girls  he is a huge fleshly man with facial features which are reminiscent of a fish

                       phlegmenkof  cont
                  flirting
          comrade serebreakov  what a
          lovely surprise what brings
          you here

                       serebreakov 
          i need   a worker

his eye catches anya he looks her up and down his
beady eyes showing a touch of lust for her

                       serebreakov cont
          i will take her

he leans close close to anya

                       serebreakov cont
          tomorrow you begin your lifes
          work in my hearing factory
          youll start by cutting off the
          tails  but if im pleased with
                       more

                       serebreakov cont
          you  you just may move up to
          cutting off the heads  how
          does that sound

                       anya
          about as bad as you smell

phlegmenkof moves between them pulling serebreakov
away

                       phlegmenkof 
          no no comrade  you dont
          want her   

                       serebreakov
          i want her

                       phlegmenkof
          thats horrible skinny thing
          shes crazy  she has no memory
          of anything before she came
          here she didnt even know her
          name that one is a rotten
          troublemaker willful  

                       serebreakov
          ill break her will  
                  to anya
          i shall come for you tomorrow
          at dawn
                  he touches her face as
                   she pulls away
          you will enjoy serving under
          me

smiling in anticipation he exit

                       phlegmenkof
          i couldnt break you  but he
          can

and she turns to leave in a huff anya does one more
imitation of her making the children laugh but as
anya turns away from her audience we see her facade
fade and realize her terror of the future


int  orphanage  night

the children huddle in their cots under tattered thin
blankets anya is fully dressed illuminated by the

light of a full moon she ties a dull gray sheets together
and anchors the rope to an ice cold radiator and
throws the other end out of the window  she is about to
climb out when she looks at the sleeping children and
smiles sadly she walks over to gregors bed and puts
one hand lovingly on his head and then reaches over and
takes the hand of a sleeping little girl who opens her
eyes and smiles

                       gregor
                  loudly
          anya

the other childern wake up as anya gently shushes him

                       gregor cont
                  quietly
          are you running away

                       anya
          no  im runningto

                       little girl
          running to running to what

                       anya
          to find my home

a chubby twelve year old girl looks at anya

                       chubby girl
          but you are home

                       anya
          no this isnt a home  its 
          just a building home is where
          you belong and none of us
          belong here

                       gregor
          where is your home anya

                       anya
          im not sure but look  

anya shows gregor the key around her neck
close up on the inscription  together in paris

                       anya
          it says together in paris i
          was wearing this when i came
          here ten years ago  its the
          only way that i know   

                       anya cont
                  beat
              that i must have been
          someone someone loved

                       chubby girl
          is your home in paris

                       anya
          it might be i have to go and
          find out

anya smiles lovingly at the childrena someplace and a someone

    anyas i want song  anya sings softly to the
children about how all she has is the key around her
neck to the someone and thesomeplace she was lost
from long ago  she tells the children that she must go
find them againunderscore continues

                       anya
          i have to go now before it
          gets light

                       gregor
                  worried
          but what if we cant ever find
          where we came from

                       anya
          then youll have to make your
          own home lots of people do

anya embraces the children and walks to the window

                       gregor
                  nervous sad
          anya what ifwecant find
          anyone who loves us

                       anya
          then come find me

gregor is relieved and cuddles into his bed as anya
smiles lovingly and crawls out the window

ext  orphanage  night

anya begins to climb down the street testing the knots
the knotshold tight but the old sheet rips in half
sending her plummeting into a snow drift  from the
depths of the snow we hear her voice

                       anya oc
          i hope theres no snow in
          paris  

ext  hillside  dawn

a glorious bright and cold dawn creeps over the
horizon anya stands at  edge of the hill looking
down on the city of stpetersburg the old gray
orphanage looms behind her anya borrows an old
beatup bicycle from the orphanage and rides down the
hill

music picks up in energy and excitement as anya zooms on
her way bumping and bouncing downhill as the sunrises
and st petersburg looms nearera someone and a someplace cont

    music becomes uptempo hopeful active active anya sings 
 full of hope energy and excitement as she peddls her
rickety bike toward the city her heart is on its way
and nothing is going to stop heranya passes though the countryside toward the city a
peasant family waves to her as she goes by a gypsy
troupe performs tricks by the side of the road a very
fancy car zooms bya someone and a someplace cont

   anya sings imagining who she might be  anyone from
a peasant to a princess but it doesnt matter as long
as she finds her real familypeople stare at her as she rides into the edge of the
city she is captivated by all the activity  cars
busses stores long lines of people etca someone and a someplace  cont

   anya sings  in this sea faces there must be
someone who has a clue to her identity  shell stop at
nothing to find the someone who once loved her  soaring
musical and vocal conclusion
end musical numberanya does not see a cute little puppy meetoo with a
huge bone in his mouth being chased along the sidewalk
by a pack of much larger vicious dogs until he bolts
across anyas path forcing her to skid to a stop she
watched him as he scoots into an alley followed by the
angry pack

on reflex anya drops the bike and reuns into the alley
after him

ext  alley  day

meetoo is trapped  the pack surrounds him ready to
pounce when anya leaps into the middle of the circle
the pack is startled but begins to advance on both anya
and meetoo

anya doesnt know what to do she crouches and then   
growls back at them making her eyes look as ferocious
as possible the pack exchange a confused look theres
a girl growling at them meetoo stands suddenly brave
behind her and growls along with her

suddenly anya pounced toward the pack growling louder
the pack has definately had enough  some start to back
out quizzically others turn and run like hell

anya turns to meetoo who looks up at her gratefully
wagging his tail anya picks up the bone and puts it
back in his mouth

                       anya
          i think you should be more
          careful about who you invite to
          dinner

meetoo nods and lets out a little bark that sounds as
if he were saying retu  anya pats him and heads back
to her bike

ext  st petersburg street  day

anya rides down the street she doesnt see meetoo
running like a little maniac behind her

anya approaches a stern looking building with a sign
over the door the peoples bureau of bureaucracy

she leaps off her bike and heads up the stais meetoo
breathing heavily from his run follows and almost
reaches her when the heavy door slams in his face  he
slumps against it panting his little pawto chest

int bureau of bureaucracy  day

anya enters and stops when she sees   lines and lines
of people which seem to go on forever  she walks down
the side of one line trying to figure out which one to
stand in

                       anya
          could someone tell me  

                       peasant 1
          end of the line

                       anya
          which line

                       peasant 2
          any line

                       peasant 3
          all lines are good lines

                       peasant 1 2  3
                  in unison
          in our beloved soviet union

they turn toward an armed soviet guard and smile
sweetly hoping he heard their flattery  he did

                       guard
          very good   

he jots something down in his notebook

on anya

as she gets closer to the window she turns to the
person behind her

                       anya
          is this the right line to get
          papers to travel

                       peasant 4
          travel travel to where

                       anya
          to paris i have to get to
          paris

peasant 5 in front of her turns around

                       peasant 5
          paris  what do they have in
          paris that they dont have
          here

                       peasant 6
          shorter lines

peasant 6 is immediately carted off by two armed guards
for his blasphamy against the state

                       peasant 7
                  quietly
          nobody leaves soviet russia

the other peasants join in with variations of nobody
leaves russia as anya reaches the window and speaks to
the clerk

                       anya
          is this where i get traveling
          papers

                       clerk
          it would be if we let you
          travel which we  dont so it
          isnt
                  loudly for all to
                   hear
          russia is the peoples 
          paradise

and to further make his point he slams shut his window
which immediately opens a crack as he whispers to anya

                       clerk cont
          see dmitri he can help

he shuts the window only to open it again immediately

                       clerk cont
          but you didnt hear it from me

he shuts the window

                       anya
                  doesnt get it
          i didnt

he opens it again

                       clerk
          no

the clerk sticks out a sign  samovar break  back in
ten minutes and slams the window shut

ext  bureau of bureaucracy

anya steps out of the building still not seeing meetoo
and looks around at the hoards of people waiting in
lines for everything  bread gas clothes etc

                       anya
                  to herself
          dmitri there must be a
          million dmitris   

follow anya

as she wades into the crowded street meetoo getting
tangled in the legs of waiting soviets

anya stops suddenly she sniffs the air  her eyes
widen as she recognizes the stench that is floating
through the air  she spins around and sees serebreakov
directly across the street

serebreakov is on a mission to find anya  he turns in
her direction just as a bus passes  anya is gone

we now see anya clinging to the side of the bus as it
drives down the street meetoo looks his face dropping
 he knows hell never catch up to her now  then he
sees the bus hit a huge pothole and anya is knocked off
into the mud  happily meetoo trots off in her
direction

anya approaches two peasants who are waiting in line in
front of a cafe

                       peasant 9
                  to peasant 10
          which line is this

                       peasant 10
          the line to get into the line

                       anya
          excuse me do you know
          dmitri   

                       peasant 9
          i know nothing

                       peasant 10
          nothing

                       peasants 9  10
                  whispering
                   simultaneously
          try the tavern library

they begin to bicker back and forth in forced whispers
as to wether dmitri is at the tavern or the library
exasperated anya walks away  they call after her

                       peasants9 10
          but we didnt tell you

anya rolls her eyes in frustration  she doesnt see
meetoo at her feet

                       anya
                  to herself
          i wish theyd all stop telling
          me they didnt tell me

meetoo gives a retu of agreement anya looks down and
sees him

                       anya cont
          what are you doing  

just then she catches another whiff of something foul
in the air anya duck quickly into a doorway and loses
meetoo anya peeks out a garbage wagon full of dead
fish and rotten food passes anya  she sighs with relief
it wasnt serebreakov  it just smelled like him

anya steps out of the doorway and approaches a street
artist sketching a large peasant woman as her tiny
husband looks over his shoulder

                       tiny husband
                  to artist
          could you get rid of her
          moustache

                       anya
          excuse me  im looking for a
          man named dmitri  

the artist quickly scribbles and address on his pad and
hands it to her without turning around

                       artist
          but i didnt write it

anya looks down at the note

close on note

st petersburg art theatre  99 pushkin street

                                             dissolve to
a sign

pushkin street

camera pans to

ext  st petersburg art theatre  day

where we hear a cacophony of female voices as the camera
moves inside

int  st petersburg art theatre

the waiting room is filled with young women of various
shapes and sizes holding reading aloud from a piece of
paper we hear many variations of oh grandmama its
me anastasia ive waited so long to see you

int  stage

an actress stands in front of what looks to be an old
woman in a shawl whos back is to the audience

                       actress 1
                  over the top
          oh grandmama its me
          anastasia ive waited so
          long to see you

the actress then lumbers over to the old woman with a
gait like john wayne

reverse angle

to see the old woman is vladimir with a shawl over
his head  he looks older of course but with the same
dapper mustache he rolls his eyes

                       vladimir
                  out to audience
          dmitri  i can not work with
          her
                       more

                       vladimir cont
                  to actress
          may i remind you that you are
          supposed to be princess  not a
          lazy lumbering lout

in the seats

is dmitri now 20 and darkly handsome his hair still
falling in his eyes as he flips it off his forehead

                       dmitri
          vladimir calm down

vladimir walks off the stage and toward dmitri

                       vladimir 
          this my friend as an exercise
          in futility we shall never
          find a girl to play the
          princess anastasia out of this
          motley crew of commoners

vladimir dramatically throws one end of his shawl over
his shoulder

                       dmitri
          for a ten million rubles reward
          we can look a little longer
          this is the big one    and all
          i need is the right girla someone and a someplace  reprise

   dmitris i want dmitri sings a reprise of anyas
song a comic version in which he expresses the hope
that he can find the right girl for his scam anyone
from a peasant to a princess will do as long as she can
fool tatiananote   we dont want to give dmitri a
whole new song here or well be too songheavy in act i
by giving him a short reprise of anyas song we can
effectively align these two characters emotionallyquick cuts

of various aspirants

                       actress 2
                  heavy hasal
          oh grandmama its me
          anastasia ive waited so long
          to see you

                       dmitri oc
          next

                       actress 3
                  stupid
          oh    grandmama its me
          anastasia i have waited so
          long too
                  as a goodbye
          see you

                       dmitri oc
          next

actress 4 looks like a hooker and sounds like mae west

                       actress 4
          oh   grandmama    its me   

                       dmitri oc
          next

back to dmitri

                       dmitri 
          i wouldnt be on the outside
          anymore  the ten million
          rubles would make me welcome
          anywhere  id really belong
          somewhere  if i could just
          find the right girl

back to quick cuts

a very round actress 5

                       actress 5
          oh grandmama  

                       dmitri oc
          next

                       actress 6
                  very intense
          whats my modivation

on vladimir

                       vladimir
                  calling out to seats
          stanislavski

cut to stanislavski

shrugs innocently

                       dmitri oc
          next

actress 7 is actually a man

                       actress 7
          oh  

on dmitri

in a state of disbelief

                       dmitri
          ive gotta find the right girlend musical numberdmitri
          next

ext  st petersburg art theatre

anya rides up to front of the theatre and drops her
bike  she rushes the steps

int  theatre

now empty as dmitri and vladimir are gathering up their
things to leave  vladimir still wears the remnants of
the evening clothes that he worein the first scene

                       vladimir
          its no use dmitri  well
          never find the right girl

                       dmitri
          we will  wehaveto
                  trying to cheer him
                   up
          come on vlad  shes out
          there

they walk out the door

ext  st petersburg art theatre  continuous

                       dmitri
          she could be right under our
          nose

anya is running up the stairs as dmitri walks out and
they collide  her forehead banging dmitri literally
under his nose  dmitri grabs his upper lip in pain

                       dmitri
                  over reacting
          ouch  that really hurt
          
                       anya
          im sorry    im   

                       dmitri
thats quite a hard head youve
got there boy

in her old handmedown boys clothes andhat pulled low
she could easily be mistaken for a boy

                       anya
                  breathless
          im looking for dmitri  i need
          traveling papers  to paris i
          heard dmitri could help me

vladimir and dmitri exchange a look    wary    dmitri
looks around and motions to vladimir to handle it while
he walks ahead nonchalantly

                       vladimir
          who did you hear it from

                       anya
          i heard it from everyone who
          said i didnt hear it from
          them   do you know dmitri

dmitri keeps walking ahead followed by vladimir anya
is determined not to give up and keeps up with vladimir
even though she keeps getting bumped and pulled off
track by people walking in the opposite direction

                       vladimir
                  loudly acting
          providing travel papers is
          illeagal
                  then quietly
          i know dmitri well  perhaps i
          can help you  providded you
          have enough money to pay for
          this service   

                       anya
          well i dont have any money   

                       vladimir
          good day

vladimir pats her on the head and walks away

                       anya
          i have a bike  perhaps i could
          sell it and   

vladimir keeps walking catching up to dmitri

anya runs back around to the front of the building where
she left her bike  she stops suddenly when she realizes
that there is no bicycle there anymore  just meetoo

                       anya cont
          what are you doing here  and
          wheres my bike

a policeman strolls by

                       anya cont
          officer  my bike has been stolen

                       policeman
          nonsense  there is no crime in
          the soviet socialist republic

and he keeps walking anya realizes that there is no
hope in pursuing the policeman so she heads off to find
vladimir  who has vanished down the street  meetoo
starts to follow her

                       anya
          sorry boy i have to go

meetoo barks retu and starts after her

                       anya cont
          no  you cant come with me
          im leaving  

meetoo barks his retu and starts after her again

                       anya cont
                  laughing
          it sounds like youre saying
          me too  listen little guy i
          have money no food    and
          no bicycle  im the last
          person you should be following

anya pats him on the head and heads off in the direction
of vlad and dmitri  meetoo of course follows her

further down the street

anya spots vladimir and dmitri turning the corner in the
distance  anya runs trying to catch up with them  she
turns the corner and stops

anyas pov

the palace in the distance only now its run down
boarded up and partially burned

anya is taken back  she stares fascinated by it 
moved by it   as the sun sets behind the palace its
bathed in a beautiful golden light

int  palace bedroom  night

close on a roaring fire over which vladimir has
fasioned a roatating spit which is propelled by a
victrola  vladimir is carefully basting the only thing
on the spit  a head of cabbage

dmitri is sitting by the window staring at the music
box that anastasia dropped the night of the revolution

                       vladimir
              even if we find her what
          makes you think the
          empress will even see us

dmitri holds up the music box

                       dmitri
          shell see us

ext  palace at st petersburg  night

anya approaches tentative and glancing around  she
tries to open the door but it wont budge so she moves
to a boarded up window  she looks through a crack in a
board

int  ballroom

dark and eerie  all of its former glory destroyed
camera rises to a partially destroyed chandlier ehere
we see bartok the bat who was with rasputin

he hangs upside down next to a female bat  he clears
his throat  she doesnt respond  using his wings he
gives his hair a quick grooming

                       bartok
          you uhh    hang here often
                  laughs nervously
          hang get it  i said hang
          and were both you know cause
          were bats    and uhhh  
          whats your sign

no reaction from female bat

ext  palace

anya uses a stick to pry off some of the window boards
we hear a crack

int palace bedroom

same crack noises from downstairs just as vladimirs
cabbage falls from the spit into the fire

                       dmitri
                  off noise
          what was that

                       vladimir
          that was your dinner  i do
          hope there is no cabbage in
          paris

int  ballroom

                       bartok
          whatta ya say we go somewhere
           maybe get a bug to eat  get
          it  a bug to eat cause
          were  

female bat rolls her eyes in disgust and flaps away

                       bartok cont
                  one last try
          im a gemini   

he hears the sound of boards being torn off the window

bartoks high angle pov

anya climbs into the ballroom

int  small room

meetoo manages to wiggle in after her and follows anya
as she wanders around spell bound by the faded glory of
the palace

int dining room

anya wanders into the partially destroyed room and bends
down to inspect half of a broken plate thats lying on
the floor the instant she touches it she pulls her
hand away as if shocked  recovering she picks it up

close on plate

painted with decorative dancing russian bears

anya wanders out of the room and to the top of a huge
staircase which leads down to the once grand ballroom
she stops at a large landing half way down the steps
meetoo sees a large curtain hanging precariously on the
side wall  being a puppy he cant resist leaping and
grabbing at it with his teeth  anya notices and runs
her hand along a the carved butterflies in the worn
banister

on anya

who jumps startled as meetoo pulls the curtain and it
hits  the floor

int  palace bedroom

dmitri and vladimir look up from their burnt cabbage
they heard it too

int  staircase ballroom

anya is relieved to see it is only meetoo who wags his
tail happily with the curtain still in his mouth

                       anya
          what are you do  

anya stops mid sentence taken by what she sees

anyas pov

behind the curtain was the frieze of the romanov family
the moonlight hits the portrait with a ghostly glowonce upon a december  the music box themeanya is mesmerized by the frieze  she looks around the
ballroom   almost remembering something   

                       anya
                  singing
          dancing bears painted wings
          things i almost remember
          and a song someone sings
          once upon a december

as she sings the ballroom transform into its once
spledid glory  anya takes off her coat and at once her
rags are transformed into a beautiful gown  nicholas
steps down from the frieze and walks her down the stairs
gracefully and begins a waltz with her

                       anya cont
          someone holds me safe and warm 
          horses prance
          through a silver storm
          figures dancing gracefully
          across my memory

music builds  a chorus of voices sing the melody as
royal ghosts appear as elegant and beautiful as in the
opening scene then

                       anya cont
          someone holds me safe and warm 
          horses prance
          through a silver storm
          figures dancing gracefully
          across my memory

music full

dmitri and vladimir appear at the top of the stairs

dmitri  vladimirs pov

some ragged lunatic dancing with himself

                       anya cont
          far away long ago
          glowing dim as an ember
          things my heart used to know
          things it yearns to remember

anya is released from nicholas embrace  he kisses her
on the forehead and slowly backs away  she follows
nicholas back up the stairs to the landing where the
sun has caused a dust mist

then magically tatiana appears through the mist a
loving beautiful vision from the past

                       anya cont
          and a song someone sings
          once upon a december

                       dmitri oc
                  yelling
          who are youend numberdmitris voice causes the visage to disintegrate  all
goes back to the way it was  dark and destroyed

anya spins toward dmitri surprised and frightened

dmitris pov

anya is caught in a ray of moonlight directly in front
of the image of anastasia in the frieze  the
resemblance is striking  dmitri is taken aback but
vladimir is unaffected

                       vladimir
          youre trespassing boy

anya is dazed by what has just happened to her and cant
quite refocus on reality

                       anya
          i    i    spoke to you earlier
          about traveling paper  

dmitri pokes vladimir with his elbow but doesnt take
his eyes off anya

                       dmitri
                  whispering to vlad
          its her

                       vladimir
          hes her

                       dmitri
          look

vladimir looks at anya again and get it

                       anya
          are you dmitri  i didnt  mean
          to trespass  i dont want to
          do anything dishonest but if
          you could just help help me  

vladimir and dmitri walk down the stairs and up her
stairs and begin to circle around her

                       vladimir
          perhaps you heard of our
          brilliant plan to find a girl
          and   

dmitri pokes him hard in the ribs and shakes his head

                       dmitri
                  quietly to vlad
          she doesnt want to do anything
          dishonest   

                       vladimir
                  gets it whispers
          ew    the honest type

dmitri gives vlad a let me handle this gestures

                       dmitri
                  off frieze
          you look like her  like the
          princess anastasia  has anyone
          ever told you that before

anya is coming back to her senses doesnt like these
men circling her

                       anya
                  sarcastic
          oh yeah  in the orphanage
          they constantly told me i
          looked like a princess stop
          that

dmitri stops circling and then begins to use everything
that anya says  the perfect and charming con man that
he is  to get what he wants

                       dmitri
          people say anastasia was the
          only member of the royal family
          to escape alive  that makes 
          her an orphan too
                       more

                       dmitri cont
                  beat
          what happened to your parents

                       anya
          i dont know  i dont remember
          anything that happened before
          the revolution   

                       dmitri
          you know its strange 
          anastasias grandmother the
          dowager empress tatiana has
          been looking for anastasia
          since the revolution  why do
          you think she wouldnt go to
          her own grandmother

                       anya
          i dont know  i dont see what
          this has to do with me

                       dmitri
          perhaps its because she has
          amnesia too  cant remember  

                       vladimir
          how much do you weigh

dmitri pokes him again

                       vladimir cont
                  to dmitri
          i was just wondering since we
          already have the dress    

                       anya
          look i came here to get papers
          to travel to paris and  

                       dmitri
          why do you want to go to paris

                       anya
                  defiant
          i have my reasons

                       dmitri
          anastasias grandmother is in
          paris  were going to bring
          anastasia to her  in paris
                       more

                       dmitri cont
                  beat
          and i think you are the
          princess anastasia

anya laughs  vlad mouths to dmitri do you think shes
really anastasia  dmitri shakes his head no of course
not then continues with anya  vlad smiles to himself
and walks down the stairs  dmitris so good even he got
confused

                       dmitri cont
          you never thought of the
          possibility

                       anya
          look  there isnt an orphan in
          the world who doesnt dream
          shes a princess but come
          on    look at me

dmitri spins spins around dramatically pointing to
anastasias image in the freeze

                       dmitri
          no  you look at her  look at
          her
                  beat then softly
          it could be youunderscore  the music box themeanya fiddles with the key around her neck and looks down
at the ballroom remembering what just happened there 
could it have been a memory   

dmitri tries to act casual as he turns and starts
walking down the stairs

                       dmitri cont
          you dont have anything to
          lose  if i am wrong  the
          empress will simply tell us you
          arent anastasia and well be
          on our way  no harm done  an
          honest mistake  but at least
          youwillbe in paris

anya touches anastasias painted hand in the frieze

                       anya
                  singing in a whisper
          things my heart used to know
          things it yearns to remember  

dmitri looks at anya her back toward him as he raises
his arm to her

                       dmitri
          find out the truth  come to
          paris with us

anya expression registers her internal debate  what is
its true    it coudnt be    but if    then

                       anya
          all right  i will go with you

meetoo lets out his retu  vladimir lets out a whoop
of joy  dmitri smiles and bows to anya

                       dmitri
          the her royal highness princess
          anastasia

on bartok

having watched the whole thing  he sighs

                       bartok
          oy    hes gonna be so mad   

bartok flies out a broken window and into the night

ext  aerial view of st petersburg  night

bartoks pov

the city lights fade and we move into the blackness of
the russian forest  finally in the distance we see
the orange glow of a fire

ext  gypsy camp  night

bartok swoops along the wagons  everyone looks to be
asleep  bartok keeps flying until he sees an ominous
looking black wagon the largest and most elaborate

bartok screws up his courage and flies into the open
window of the black wagon

                       anya
                  singing in a whisper
          things my heart used to know
          things it yearns to remember 

dmitri looks at anya her back toward him as he raises
his arm to her

                       dmitri
          find out the truth  come to
          paris with us

anya expression registers her internal debate what if
its true it couldnt be but if then

                       anya
          all right i will go with you

meetoo lets out his retu vladimir lets out a whoop of
joy dmitri smiles and bows to anya

                       dmitri
          the her royal highness princess
          anastasia

on bartok

having watched the whole thing  he sighs

                       bartok
          oy    hes gonna be so mad

bartok flies out a broken window and into the night

ext	aerial view of st petersburg  night

bartoks pov

the city lights fade and we move into the blackness of
the russian forest finally in the distance we see
the orange glow of a fire

ext	gypsy camp  night

bartok swoops along the wagons everyone looks to be asleep
bartok keeps flying until he sees an onious looking black
wagon the largest and most elaborate

bartok screws up his courage and flies into the open
window of the black wagon

int	rasputins wagon

a lone candle lights the dark wagon a frightened bartok
stays on the window sill

                       bartok
          ummm  father gregori its
          uhh  me bartok
                  a sign of relief
          phew not home 

rasputins face suddenly roars into frame from the bed
below his eyes fiery red and his beard wild

                       rasputin
          what

                       bartok
          oh my god
                  wing to chest
          dont do that  feel my heart
          go ahead im dying here 

                       rasputin
                  smiling
          and what do you want my little
          ratwithwings

rasputin rises and pours himself a glass of vodka

                       bartok
          name calling thats mature

rasputin grabs him by the throat

                       rasputin
          i gave you that tongue and i
          can rip it out

                       bartok
                  strangled
          no i really like my tongue
          were very attached
                  rasputin releases him
          oyyyy okay now promise
          you wont get angry

                       rasputin
                  sweetly
          why would i ever be angry with
          you little friend


                       bartok
          yeah right keep that thought
          okay so im in town stop by
          the old palace you get a better
          class of bats there  no tattoos
          or anything

rasputin rummages around for a full bottle of vodka
tossing the empties  which bartok has to dodge

                       bartok cont
          so im cruisin the rafters and
          what can i say i struck out i
          thought chicks would like the fact
          that i can talk you know but
          i mean the way things are going
          i couldnt get invited to a plague
                  a bottle smashes
          someones gotta clean that up

                       rasputin
          get to the point sometime tonight
          im late for a wenching

                       bartok
          okay youre not gonna like this
          but well it looks like anastasia
          is  still alive

he tenses waiting for rasputins explosion but rasputin
just laughs

                       rasputin
          impossible that rumors been
          around for years

bartok hovers facetoface

                       bartok
          trust me its her

                       rasputin
                  eyes narrowing
          how do you know

                       bartok
          rodents intuition how do i know
          she looks exactly like her
          except shes taller
          which	is natural  of course
          my second cousin treplev  he
          never	grew looks like a
          little pepper shaker he was
          so cute 

rasputin begins a slow growl that builds

                       bartok cont 
          oyyy i knew this was gonna
          to upset him

rasputin howls in anger and smashes his glass against
the wall he moves toward the cabinet knocking over
furniture rasputin flings open the cabinet and we see
the reliquary glowing gently as if it were sleeping
bartok covers his eyes in fear even rasputin seem a
bit nervous in front of it

                       rasputin
                  with reverence
          source of my power owner of
          my soul i need your help

rasputin takes the reliquary out of the cabinet and
sets it on the table

                       bartok
          hey shes just a kid and shes
          going to paris outta sight
          outta mind outta russia

                       rasputin
          i cursed then all

                       bartok
          my aunt bella sweet woman not
          the brightest bat in the world 
          she used to hang right side up
          anyway she always said curses
          were made to be broken course
          she said it in those irritating
          little bat squeaks so it wasnt
          quite so profound

rasputin pulls out a set of russian dolls a small
painted hollow doll with a smaller doll inside it
and a smaller doll inside it etc the first doll
bears an eerie resemblance to nicholas inside the
second looks like alexandra all the way down to the
anastasia dollthe end of the line production number

rasputin will have a dark menacing deliciously

scary number in which he sings of his obsession with
killing the romanovs once and for all bartok will
interject comically throughouut as rasputin 	
will conjure up tlis minions from the iquary and sing
about romanovs finale he sends them off after anya

song to incorporate the following sentimentsrasputin
          the romanovs tried to kill me and
          i swore to destroy all of them
          if she lives if she should have
          a child someday the romanov family
          continues and i wont lot that
          happen this is the end of the line

he crushes the anastasia doll in his massive hand

                       bartok
          you know this is really obsessive
          behavior there is this doctor this
          doctor in austria sigmund something
          and he feels   

bartok land on the table while bes talking and his
wing accidently knocks the reliquary on its side and
it begins to roll

                       rasputin
          you idiot

rasputin makes a sad leap grabbing it seconds before it
shatters on the floor	rasputin holds it up the
smokey spirits inside swirl around moaning

                       rasputin cont
                  to reliquary
          yesses  youd all like to get
          out wouldn t you sorry
          just one at a time and only
          when i call

rasputin spins an bartok who us been slinki away and
slams a goblet over his

bartoks pov

from under the glass rasputin looks distorted and even
more horrifying

                       rasputin
                  to bartok
          do you have any idea what would
          happen if that broke

                       bartok
                  voice under glass
          youd lose your security deposit

                       rasputin
                  waving reliquary
          evil powerful beings  i have
          their power only if i contain
          them control them if they
          should all be released at
          once well 

rasputin smiles with his horrible yellow decayed teeth
and lifts the glass an if to whisper in bartok a ear

                       rasputin cont
          you dont want to be around
          if that happens

the volume of rasputins voice rattles bartok around the
inside of the glass rasputin focuses on the reliquary

                       rasputin cont
                  to reliquary
          where is she where is
          princess anastasia

inside the reliquary the awoke begins to mow suddenly
the smoke explodes in a burst and forms into the smoke
from a train engine as the reliquary picture broadens
we see a train and anya dmitri and vladimir all hurrying
to catch it

                       rasputincont
          she has friends no matter

bartok looks desperate under glass he trios to topple
the glass prism by jumping up but just cooks his head

                       bartok
          ohhh that was dumb

                       bartok cont
                  calling to rasputin
          hello ive get really terrible
          claustrophobia thats why i
          could never live in a cave 

rasputin gives his attention only to the reliquary

                       rasputin
          finish my prophecy

smoke begins to pour out of the reliquary asput almost
giddy with the thought of finishing ambition laughs
hysterically

                       bartok
          ew i hate when he does this

as rasputin swirls his arms the smoke begins to form
into minions all look human at first but then
we see minion one has the body of a human and a head of
a jackal minion two has the face of a woman and the
claws of a tiger and minion the most horrible
of all  has a huge bearlike body with the head of a
vulture all wear long capes with hoods

                       rasputin
          she is not to get off that
          train alive

rasputin kicks open the wagon door and leaps outside
the minions still filling out into forms follow
one of the wisps of smoke like a tail swishes by and
knocks over bartoks glass prism freeing his

ext gypsy camp  night

rasputin releases his black horses who stoup and
whinny men ing something bad as two minions float
on to them the other flies ahead of than

                       rasputin
          go i dont care what you do with the
          others but finish the girl killlll herrrrr
                  sinister
          and have fun

the minions take off rasputin laughs wildyend musical numberint tatianas study paris  day

close on

tatianas hands covering her face slowly dropping her
hands down to reveal an older sad tatiana

                       tatiana
          take her away sophie

pull back

to reveal a young woman standing in front of bar desk

                       tatiana
          havent anything better to do
          than to break my heart

sophie ushers the now ashamed young woman to the door
the young woman looks amazing like anya except that her
hair is long and her clothes are now she walks with a
certain regal grace until she passes through the doorway 
out of tatianas sight  and her posture questionmarks
and she lopes out

                       tatiana cont
                  quietly
          no more so more

sophie heavier and larger bottomed than ten years earlier
speaks quickly  without ev er breathing in a high
pitched nervous chitter

                       sophie
                  very rapidly
          oh oh i must say i thought
          that one was bar  im just so
          shocked that she wasnt real well
          she was real i mean she was human
          of course but not our real i must
          say even my sisters were touched
          by her yes  yes they were

xenia and estelle as pinched and skinny as sophie in
full dont appear to ever have been touched by
anything or anyone

                       sophie cont
           moved to tears of joy we wont
          be f ooled next time girls im a
          going to think of really hard questions

                       tatiana
                 stopping sophie with
                  a raise of her hand
          no sophie my heart cant take it
          anymore i will see no more girls
          claiming to be anastasia

tatiana walks sadly out of the room

ext tram station  morning

anya and metoo doze near a fire along with the other
peasants waiting for the train dmitri looks over vladimirs
shoulder nervously watching his forging their travel papers

                       dmitri
          hurry up with those papers

                       vladimir
          would you have leaned over
          rembrants shoulder and told
          him to paint faster

vladimir looks at dmitris anxious face

                       vladimir cont
          you probably would
                  hands his the papers
          theyre still wet

a train whistle slows and vlad moves to anya

                       vladimir cont
          wake up young lady thats our train

                       dmitri
                  correcting
          wake up your highness  we should
          start getting used to saying it

                       vladimir
          what a world  a man who was in
          my position in society is calling
          a peasant your highness

dmitri leans over and tugs anyas hair lightly

                       dmitri
                  to anya
          wake up

anyas  eyes flash open and  totally on reflex  she belts
dmitri in the nose ditri reels back  lands on his butt 
vladimir observes ruefully

                       vladimer
          we have a lot of work to do

ext train platform  seconds later

vladimir using his ample belly bumps people out of the
way as they head for the train vlad climbs on just as
it starts up followed	by dmitri dmitri turns back and
reaches out his hand to help anya up but she
freezes just stands there not running

anyas pov

                       dmitri
          come on

dmitri on the train his band extended  just like
tatianas was although anya cant quite remember
something about this terrifies bar she snaps out
of it when meetoo nips her ankle

anya looks down and sees the puppy picks his up and
runs for the train

                       dmitri
          take my hand

anya puts meetoo into his hands and jumps on without
touching his

int train compartment

the compartment is jammed with travelers suitcases
and packages balanced precariously dmitri sits down
and carefully touches his painful noso

                       dmitri
          do you always punch people first
          thing in the morning

                       anya
          sorry  its a reflex living
          in an orphanage if someone bothers
          you  you automatically come up
          swinging

                       dmitri
          i wasnt bothering you i was
          trying to wake you up

over anyas shoulder out of the window we see the
three minions on horseback charging down a snow covered
hill toward the train

                       anya
          by pulling my hair

                       dmitri
          i was all out of dynamite

dmitri touches his nose again anya opens the window
and grabs some snow	we see the minions racing wildly
to catch up with the train as the scene continues we
see the minions	by one getting close to the train
and then disappear from	view  only their riderless
horses ride away

                       anya
                  hands dmitri the snow
          put it on your nose for heavens
          sake youre making such a fuss

dmitri tries to act very manly as he puts the ice on his
nose but cringes with the cold anya smiles

                       anya
                  to herself
          men are such babies

an elderly woman loaded with packages cones into the
compartment anya immediately rises to help her

                       anya
          here let me

dmitri and vlad both pull her back down

                       dmitri
          youre a princess

                       vladimir
          royalty do not help people
          with their luggage

anya gives them both a look and helps the woman

                       vladimir
          well she certainly has a mind
          of her own

                       dmitri
          yes and i hate that in a woman

vlad holds meotoo who is enthralled and plays with
vladimirs drooping mustache like a kitten with a string

the compartment door swings open and an ominous looking
guard strides in

                       guard
          papers

everyone rustles for their papers dmitri confidently
pulls out their papers done in beautiful black ink
then he glances at the person next to him and sees
that his papers are done in a bright red ink dmitri
looks over at vladimir  who has seen the mistake as well

                       vladimir
                  sheepishly
          its what i hate about this
          government  everything in red

the guard hand papers back to a soulful looking man
with a frozen beard

                       guard
          thank you comrade zhivago

                       zhivago
          doctor zhivago

guard approaches vlad and dmitri

                       vladimir
          what do we do now

                       dmitri
          pray hes colorblind

dmitri flashes the guard a charming smile as he hands
over his papers vladimir is nervously playing with
his mustache until it stands out straight anya has
no idea whats going on

                       guard
          wait here

as the guard heads out of the compartment vlad turns
to dmitri and they exchange an oh no look

int corridor another car

the minions hoods pulled low push their way through
the passengers in search of anastasia

int corridor

dmitri spots the guard conferring with the guards
over the papers anya pokes bar head out

                       anya
          im going to stretch my legs

                       dmitri
          thats a good idea  a great
          idea  stretch your legs
                  pointing the opposite
                  direction of the
                  guards
           stretch then that way

anya looks at him like hes crazy and walks away

                       anya
                  to herself
          i must have hit him harder than
          i thought

dmitri runs back in and grabs his small backpack he
pulls vlad carrying meetoo out off the compartment
anya has a load on them as they follow

int train compartment  day

the guards burst in ready for an arrest in the
background the hooded minions pass the guards
seeing empty seats head back out

int train corridor  another car

anya looks out the window as the country side flies by
and smiles	

int corridor

the guards spot three figures at the far end of the car

                       guard
          thats them come on

they run after who they think are the fugitives
the guard grabs a minion and spins him around

its minion three who comes facetobeak with him
and lets out a horrendous screech causing the other
minion to turn around the guards scream and reel backward
pushing and shoving each other to got out of the way

the minions proceed up the corridor minion two spot
anya looking out the window he grabs her palling her
viciously to the other minions she spins around  it
isnt anya  its a seriously ugly woman the minions
now scream and reel back in horror

int corridor  simultaneous

dmitri and vladimir catch up to anya and grab her in
each arm loading bar down the hall we hear the minions
scream from the next car

ext between cars

anya dmitri and vlad step out on a platform and see
there is no place left to run only the engine is
ahead of them

                       dmitri
          wait here

he leaps up gracefully grabbing the edge of the roof
and pull himself up

                       anya
                  to vlad
          would you like to tell what we are

as dmitris head upside down appears from the roof

                       dmitri
          come on up

                       anya
          why

vladimir picks anya from up from tobehind and hoists
her up to dmitri she hollers

ext train roof

anya is pulled up by dmitri with a force that knocks
them both over anya on top an awkward moment anya
rolls off him as dmitri tries to catch the breath she
knocked out of him

                       anya
          just what do you think youre doing

                       dmitri
          trying to breathe

suddenly meetoo appears as if he were flying and
lots out a little retu vladimir has tossed his
up and dmitri catches his band his to anya and
reaches down to vladimir

int corridor

though the window the minions see vladimirs legs
as hes being lifted

int roof of train

dmitri struggles to got vlad to the roof but hes
losing his grasp anya puts meetoo down and reaches
to help the dangling vlad even meetoo helps by
pulling an vladimirs  scarf 

ext platform

minion one grabs for vladimirs legs just as
they disappear

ext roof of train

dmitri and anya let out a sigh of relief as vlad in
safe but its short lived as they both simultaneously
lot out a yell

dmitri  anyas pov

a tunnel rapidly approaching

they hit the deck vlad on his back between anya and
dmitri	anya and dmitri exchange a quick look as the
tunnel gets closer  vladimirs stomach is sticking up
too high to clear the tunnel they reach up together
and push down on his big belly causing his eyes to
bulge

on the side of the train

the minions now climbing up the side are plunged into
total darkness

on the roof

light hits as the train comes out of the tunnel
vlad lets out a gasp as they release his belly
just then a minion hand reaches up over the edge
dmitri assumes its a guard

                       dmitri
          the guards
                  anya gives his a lack
          ill explain later

anya and vlad follow dmitri toward the back of the train

on the minions

now on the roof seeing their prey in short distance

on anya and the others

running without looking back jumping from car to car
passing meetoo like a football vladiair makes a huge
running leap into the air

int train compartment

as all passengers react to vladimirs bulk hitting and
denting the coiling

ext roof of train

the train whistle erupts and anya glances back to see
her pursuers just as they are enveloped in the thick black
smoke of the engine behind them anya can another tunnel

tunnel

they drop down this time vlad in on his stomach anya
and dmitri realize his butt wont clear the tunnel
they push it down

on the minions

an the smoke disappears the minions eyes go wide when
they realize its too late for them the train roars the
tunnel as the minions smash not the sift of

the mountain in a colorful burst of smoke from which
they were created

int rasputins wagon  parallel time

dissolve to

ext	roof of train  day

rasputin stares at the scene in his reliquary watching
his well laid plan go up in smoke and lots out a
simmering growl

anya is standing with her hands an her hips arguing
with dmitri and vladiair

                       anya
          forged papers now what

                       dmitri
          now just get off the train

                       anya
          huh

dmitri motions that they are going to jump anya shakes
her head slowly

                       anya
          noooo

                       vladimir
          shes quite right dmitri a man
          of my stature should not have to

dmitri shoves him off the top of the train with meetoo
in his arm dmitri then puts out his hand to anya

                       dmitri
          come on well jump together
          take my hand

dmitri turns forward and sees the train is approaching
a high railroad bridge over a rocky ravine its now
or never

                       dmitri
          come on

                       anya
          no

with his outstretched hand dmitri shoves her off the bar

ext countryside  day

vladimir has landed in a large pile of snow he stands
rubbing his bottom

                       vladimir
          i think i have hurt my

meetoo comes out of the pile of leaves rubbing his
bottom and answers vladimirs with his retu

a short distance away anya seems to be sitting on
top of a puddle  but she isnt wet suddenly dmitri
gets up from underneath her covered in snow anya
isnt wet because she landed on dmitri she jumps up

                       dmitri
          you must enjoy causing me pain

                       anya
          you shouldnt have pushed us

vladimir and meetoo come over

                       vladimir
          is everyone all right

                       anya
          im fine

                       dmitri
          shes fine
                  limping away
          i may never walk right again
          but shes fine

int	rasputins wagon

rasputin paces still angry at the minions bartok
nervous fakes a yawn and stretches

                       bartok
well i better got goin got a busy day letting all
the blood rush to my head

rasputin pulls him back in then speaks to his reliquary

                       rasputin
          shes too far away isnt she

the reliquary glows eyes rasputin places it back in its cabinet

                       rasputin cont
          yesss our power is much stronger
          when were near we must get close
          to her

                       bartok
          oy not a road trip i get
          wagon sick you know that

rasputin smacks him against the wall as he stomps out
of the wagon bartok slides down the wall

                       bartok cont
          youre absolutely right travel
          broadens your horizons

and he hits the floor

ext gypsy camp  might

rasputin on his obsessed mission leaps on top of the
wagon as bartok still dizzy tries to catch up

                       rasputin
          well catch her and finish her
                  he grabs the reigns
          we ride this night

rasputin then looks down and sees that there are no horses
harnessed he gave then to the begins a slow growl

                       bartok
          well	we wait this night

ext	country  break of dawn

anya is walking ahead with vladiair as dmitri follows
hes still muddy wet and unhappy

                       vladimir
          no have a lot of work to do
          anya come along meetoo

meetoo is trying to catch fire flies in his mouth

                       vladimir cont
          we have to prepare you for an
          audience with sophie

                       anya
          whos sophie

                       vladimir
               lost in warm memories
          ah  the lady sophie the
          ravishing first cousin once
          removed from the empress we
          must convince sophie that you
          are the princess before well
          be granted a meeting with the
          empress  your grandmother
          i mean

anya stops dead in her tracks this is the first shes
heard of this

                       anya
          what

dmitri not paying attention slams into the back
of anya anya not hurt turns to dmitri  who is
rubbing his now sore shoulder

                       anya cont
          you never said anything to me
          about having to prove im a
          princess

                       dmitri
          you are the princess

                       vladimir
          were just going to refresh
          your memory

                       anya
          i dont have a memory and im
          not a princess
               looks down at herself
          even if i were  no ones ever
          going to believe it im not
          exactly

anya searches for the word as she sits down next
to a frozen pond

                       anya cont
               sadly to herself
           good enough
	       to others
          i cant go through with this

dmitri sits next to anya and looks at her reflection
in the ice

                       dmitri
          what do you see

anyas pov

her smudged face and boys clothes dmitris hands
come into frame wipe off her face with snow and
them pull her hair off her face anya does truly
look pretty

                       dmitricont
          see the princess is under there 

                       vladimir
          ah let us begina possible vladimir song

vladimir would begin to sing here telling anya that she
has a lot to learn the music would probably have a
light somewhat comedic tone and would be just a short
section of singing which would then segue to underscore
for the scenes of instruction which follow

we see the three of them from behind walking down a
road  meetoo trots behind them happilyvladimir cont
          you were born on the adriatic sea at
          the summer palace where the parties
          and the buffets were marvelous 

ext sleigh  day

vladimir is putting icicles in anyas hair to keep it
up in a bun  she looks sweet despite her boys clothes
she is reciting something to dmitri

                       anya
          and on my fathers side
          there was this section is not ledgable 

anya thinks as dmitri looks at a long sheet of
paper prompting her

                       dmitri
          every russian family has one

                       anya
               gets it
          natasha natasha feastavich
          but we called her nashie
          fooshie

                       vladimir
          did i tell you that

                       anya
          you must have

ext pig cart  day

anya dmitri and vladimir are sitting in the back of a
pig cart traveling down a country road the pigs are very
interested as anya is pointing to different pieces of hay
which set her imaginary table

                       anya
               repeating
          fish fork salad fork meat fork and  
               cant remember then
                exasperated
          this section also not ledgable

                       dmitri
	       hinting
          its the best fork of all

                       anya
          the dessert fork

                       vladimir
               lost in a memory of
                rich desserts
          ah yes  i have always loved
          that fork

dmitri and anya exchange a look and then laugh
adding ad libs of we can tell and theres a
fork you should have skipped this is the first
time dmitri and anya have laughed together 
actually the first time hes ever seen her smile 

ext	port  day

dmitri who is sneaking around pulling womens clothes
out of a suitcase that clearly isnt theirs he takes
out a large but pretty dress a beautiful veil  and a
huge brassiere which he quickly stuffs back in the
suitcase  somewhat frightened he takes the dress and
veil puts it in his backpack and joins vladimir and anya
as they admire the ship

                       anya
          what a beautiful ship

                       dmitri
          it used to be a private yacht
          before the government took it over

                       vladimir
          oh yes it was the seagoing vessel
          of elaborate elegance in entertaining
               looks at dmitri and anya explaining
          a party boat it once belonged to 

vladimir honestly cant remember anya thinks its
another quiz

                       anya
          konstantin petrovich of moscow

dmitri and  vladimir exchange a quizzical look no
one told her that

meetoo spots two ugly pug dogs and a distinguished
elderly dowager he runs happily to play with them
she pulls her dogs away from meetoo

                       elderly dowager
          no no boys you dont know where
          hes been

they give him a disgusted look and walk away meetoo
looks a little hurt

int hallway of the ship  night

dmitri and vladimir are standing by a closed door
anya is on the other side

                       anya 0 c
          no i look ridiculous

                       vladimir
          come out i can do alterations

                       anya oc
          youll laugh

                       vladimir
          i shant

                       anya oc
          not you him

                       dmitri
          i wont laugh  i swear

the door opens and anya comes out in the blue dress
dmitri stole which at least ten sizes too big for her
she is still wearing her hair up and despite the size
which actually gives her a kate moss waifish look
with her mens boots and baggy dress  the blue brings
out her eyes dmitri sees her and busts out laughing

                       anya
          you said you wouldnt laugh

                       dmitri
          its not you  its the dress

anya storms back into the cabin and slam the door behind her

int	cabin  simultaneous action

when anya storms into the cabin she catches a glimpse of
herself in the mirror

                       anya
               to herself
          im never going to be

just then the slamming door catches the back of her dress
pulling more than half of it into the door frame she sees
in the mirror that the now fitted dress shows a lovely
womans figure pleased she looks at herself

                       anya cont
          well maybe i am

ext	cabin door  night

vladimir and dmitri wait outside the door the door opens
and anya appears having tied the veil around the waist
of the dress making it look fitted and beautiful dmitri
and vladimir are surprised as anya walks past them with
confidence and throws them a look over her shoulderreprise of vladimirs song over montage

the tone of the song would now change   the older
wiser person watching as two younger people are
unwittingly falling in love the tone can still be
light as are the visuals here but there would be
an undercurrent of irony and romance the song would
end as anya and dmitri have their first momentary
embracemontage mos

on deck anya still in her boots walks gracefully
down the deck in spite of the ships rocking motion
dmitri and vlad cant even stand due to the motion
anya looks back and flashes them a smile

in their cabin dmitri gets out of the bed hes
been sharing with vlad and walks over past where
anya is sleeping peacefully to close the port hole
against a cold wind he closes is and sees anya 
she looks beautiful  he bends down to pull up her
covers and she slugs him

under a table meetoo is walking around sniffing
feet suddenly he runs smack into the two ugly
pug dogs who growl at him he runs away and finally
sees a womans foot and a pair of pretty feminine
shoes with heels that she has kicked off meetoo
grabs them in his mouth and runs

on deck the sea is calm but anya  wearing the heeled
shoes for the first time  is teetering and wobbling
like mad dmitri and vlad watch her with amusement
anya turns to them

on deck dmitri has stuffed his feet into the womans
shoes and is barely able to walk as anya watches him
with great vindication

ballroom anya walks into the ballroom steady and
graceful in her new shoes on vladimirs arm and
completes a perfect curtsy in front of dmitri dmitri
applauds and moves down to her as she stands and smacks
him with her head accidently

their cabin vladimir is directing anya as she waltzes
gracefully in their swaying cabin dmitri enters and is
directed to join anya he does and they dance together
with anya clearly leading the boat sways to the left
and anya is thrown closer into dmitris arms neither
of them even try to readjust

end montage

still in the scene

vladimir walks over to anya and nervously chatters he
knows he interrupted something as he leads her away
from dmitri

                       vladimir
          you are a natural i dont know
          how you ever learned to dance
          that well that must have been
          some high class orphanage 

ext sea  night

as a storm begins to whip up the wind starts to howl
and the waves become more violent

reverse angle

just as a bolt of lightning strikes the water we see
rasputins face

int cabin  night

the storm is pitching the boat wildly vladimir is
sleeping snoring loudly meetoo sound asleep is
sliding from side of the cabin to the other anya
is looking out the small port hole at the violent
sea when dmitri carrying his back pack sits on the
bed next to her

                       dmitri
          i wanted to show you something

dmitri takes out the music box and hands it to anya
she is immediately taken by it something about it 

                       anya
          its so beautiful  and sad

                       dmitri
          sad

                       anya
          lost it feels lost this was hers

                       dmitri
          yeah  well yours you still
          dont believe that youre the
          princess do you

                       anya
          i know i must have had something
          to do with the palace  ive had
          little flashes of things  but
          being the princess it doesnt
          matter as long as i find my home

                       dmitri
         well the only thing youve got
         when youve got a home is a fear
         of losing it youre lucky you
         dont remember the revolution 
         i never had much but what i did
         have  i lost

                       anya
         im sorry

                       dmitri
              false bravado
         hey it doesnt matter you gotta
         make your own way in the world
         dont be sorry for me im going
         to get what i want dont you worry

dmitri goes back over to his bed anya sees through
him and knows how much it all did matter to him

ext	sea cliff  night

the wagon sits on the edge of a high cliff rasputin
stands on the top of his wagon staring at the sea
demonically the jagged bolts of lightening and the
icy silver rain make him look all the more menacing

                       rasputin
              low slow
         shes out there 

the wind parts his beard and we see bartok hanging
upside down in it trying to stay out of the storm

                       bartok
         im getting a chest cold

                       rasputin
         bartok a question

                       bartok
         im getting pneumonia i have
         a fever feel my forehead

                       rasputin
         what do you think is the most
         humiliating way to die

rasputins eyes light up as if he just thought of the
answer to his own question bartok is thrown out of his
beard when he makes a sudden turn and leaps off the
wagon bartok follows

                       bartok
         my cousin mischa nice fellow
         had some dental problems  you
         didnt want to watch him eat
         lets put it that way

rasputin steps in

int	wagon  night

as bartok continues rasputin moves to the
reliquarys cabinet

                       bartok
          anyway a bunch of other
         bats were hanging in the belfry 
         i know cliche but there you have
         it and mischa not the brightest
         bat in the world decides to hanginthe bell which was fine
         for awhile until it started ringing 
	      shivers
         ewwww what a mess 

                       rasputtn
	      to reliquary
         show her to me 

                       bartok
         and it didnt help the tonal
         quality of the bell either

images horrifying and frightening begin to spin
into a small tornado rasputin throws open the door
and the tornado bursts out streaking across the water

ext	sea cliff  night

rasputin follows tornado to the cliff and watches
as it disappears into the horizon of the water
lightning and thunder crash as he laughs maniacally

int	cabin  night

which is swaying with the storm pan past vladimir
snoring his now limp mustache flopping wildly and
past dmitri sleeping restlessly move to anya who
seems quite content

from under the door smoky images silently slither
they float across the cabin and swirl around anya

close on

anyas closed eyes as the smoky images seem to enter
her head she smiles in her sleep and we are in anyas
dream  

ext	forest  day

anya in a beautiful white dress is walking peacefully
through a sunny part of a lovely forest on a spring day
she reaches down to pick some pretty flowers then looks
up as it seems to get dark ominous looking clouds cover
the sun anya reaches down for another flower when she
hears a growl

anya spins to see an enormous bear emerge from the trees
all the animals in the dream sequence have a slight
resemblance to rasputin anya is frozen with fear as more
bears emerge and head straight for her she tries to back
away as the beautiful flowers grow long and horrible thorns
and wrap around her ankles impeding her escape

it gets darker as the bears eyes glowing yellow multiply
and move closer anya pulls free of the flowers and rushes
to the safety of a large tree  she climbs the tree and
escapesthe bears looking down from her perch on a sturdy
branch the ground seems miles away

suddenly the branch jolts her and almost falling she hold
 on to it tightly but the branch turns in toward

her  no longer a tree branch but a huge ugly snake with
red eyes and huge fangs that come right for her

anya leaps to another branch which also turns into a snake
she jolts backward and begins to fall  toward a hundred
yellow eyes fifty blood red mouths and thousands of sharp
teeth as anya falls she lets out a silent scream

a burst of sunlight

as anya lands in a field of soft golden wheat unharmed
and very relieved she stands and looks around at the
beautiful sunny wheat field

int cabin

reality anyas eyes are closed as she smiles in her
sleep and sits up in bed tiny wisps of smoke still
swirl around her head as she gets out of bed she
unintentionally steps on meetoos tail waking him
meetoo watches as the sleeping anya opens the cabin door
and walks out

meetoo rises to follow anya but the ship pitches sending
him sliding across the cabin floor

ext deck  night

anya walks out on the deck the ship pitching violently
in the storm as she smiles

in her dream

anya is walking through the wheat field to the edge of
a bluff a few yards below the bluff anya sees a beautiful
little pond where a family frolics in the clear water
laughing splashing swiming happily anya climbs over a
low flowering wall to look closer

pull back

reality anya has climbed over the railing of the deck
and is looking into the black ocean smiling

dissolve to

a smoky image of the same scene

its rasputins pov as he watches his plan unfold in the
reliquary

int cabin

meetoo finally rights himself from his slide across the
floor and begins to bark into dmitris ear

ext deck

anya is waving happily at the dangerous water

in her dream

anya is waving to the family they turn around toward
her and she sees that its the romonov family from
the frieze that she saw in the palace she is delighted
to see them as she feels a distance recollection of who
they are to her

int cabin

meetoo jumps up and nips at dmitris hand dmitri leaps
up with an owwww and looks over at the excited meetoo

                       dmitri
         if you have to go  wake her

dmitri looks over to anyas bed  she isnt sits up and
throws his legs over the side

ext deck

anya is standing right on the edge of death

in her dream

she isnt there he of his bed

the family is waving to her nicholas waves for her to
jump into the clear pond and join them anya nods and
moves to jump in

ext deck

anya gets ready to jump into the violent and icy black
waves she takes one step out when dmitri grabs her
shoulders

anya jolts awake from her dream confused at first
then terrified to see what almost happened to her
isnt lifts her to the other side of the railing
and looks at her

                       dmitri
         what were you doing

anya puts her hands to her mouth in shock shaking
and almost crying with fear she throws her arms
around dmitri and holds him tightly

dmitri is surprised at first but tightens his arms
around her

                       dmitri cont
         its okay now  ive got you
         youre safe

they stand steady on the deck in a tight embrace
their feelings for each other are stronger than the storm

dissolve to

the same as seen through the reliquary

rasputin watches  seething quietly as bartok peeks
meekly over his shoulder

                       bartok
         boy dont you hate it when
         that happens

                       rasputin
              controlling
         she leads a charmed life that
         little one  someone is always
         there to save her in the palace
         as a child on the train and now
          its him

rasputin studies dmitri in the reliquary  dmitri and
anya still in a warm embrace

                       bartok
         nice looking fellow i mean
         dont get me wrong  im not
         attracted to him in the physical
         sense i just 

but rasputins not interested he stares into the
reliquary and speaks directly to it

                       rasputin
         you are toying with me arent
         you you let me get so close

the reliquary as if in answer seem to be chuckling
rasputin smiles and joins in with it

                       rasputin cont
         bartok  have you ever been to paris

                       bartok
         me no rich food  it kills me
         ever try and fly after one of
         those heavy sauces

rasputin returns the reliquary to its cabinet

                       rasputin
         we are going to paris  and while
         were there lets kill the young
         man he annoys me

ext boat dock la havre  day

as anya walks down the plank her dress gets caught
on a nail dmitri is walking toward her as she yanks her
dress free and accidentally punches him in the stomach
dmitri takes it like a man

                       anya
         oh im sorry

                       dmitri
         its okay didnt hurt

vlad has been watching as he walks down the plank
with meetoo  they exchange an oh boy look both
noticing that clearly something is different between
anya and dmitri anya catches something out of the
corner of eye and turns quickly

close on a sign paris 30 kilometers

anya walks away from dmitri and over to the sign
and looks at it longingly

                       anya
              to herself
         im almost there im finally
         going to know

at the other end of the dock

vladimir stares into his purse depressed

                       dmitri
         how is our current financial status

                       vladimir
         if i used the word bleak i would
         be optimistic

as he says this the elderly dowager from the ship
passes by with her two obnoxious pug dogs meetoo
growls as vlad and dmitri get an idea

                      vladimir cont
         the odessa dunk

                      dmitri
         it worked in odessa

vladimir picks up meetoo and whispers instructions
meetoo likes the plan

new angle

as meetoo races past the pugs they ignore him so he
stops and makes a face giving them a sloppy razzberry
which piques them a little meetoo then bends over and
waves his furry little butt at them now the pugs are
offended and take off after him yapping all the way

meetoo turns and scrambles with the pugs in hot pursuit
as they get closer meetoo suddenly stops and the pugs
go flying off they edge of the dock and into the water
below meetoo looks over the edge and gives them a boy
are you guys morons look as the elderly dowager runs
up screaming

                       elderly dowager
         help my little dogs chevalier maurice
         hold on darlings

dmitri comes running up a little too gallant

                       dmitri
         ill save them madame

dmitri dives into the water as vlad rushes up behind
the elderly dowager anya watches from a distance as
dmitri climbs out of the water carrying the soaked
and pissed pugs

                       vladimir
         such bravery why that man should
         be rewarded amply rewarded

minutes later

dmitri hands vlad a pile of francs as anya approaches

                       anya
         that was really very kind of you

she gives him a kiss on the cheek and walks away with
meetoo who turns back and gives dmitri a look a
little guilty dmitri turns to vlad

                       vladimir
         i wont say a word

ext	grand open car  day

traveling is style vladimir is driving  badly  with
meetoo in the front seat meetoo covers his eyes dmitri
and anya are in the open back seat enjoying the beautiful
french countryside

dmitri looks over at anya

                       dmitri
         nervous

                       anya
         yes  if i cant convince sophie
         ill never be able to see tatiana

                       dmitri
         youll convince her you have the
         qualities of a princess youre
         poised and strong and beautiful
          even if you forget a couple
         dates of family names  shell know

anya smiles at dmitri knowing that all the confidence
she has is because of him she takes his hand but
looks away

ext tatianas paris house  day

they pull up in front of the beautiful white house
anya is nervous as vladimir walks up to the front door
ahead of dmitri and anya vladimir knocks sophie
answers the door

she moves with grace and regal poise

                       vladimir
         may i present her royal
         highness princess anastasia

                       sophie
         oh good we havent seen an
         anastasia in several days

anya looks to dmitri a little confused by that last
comment dmitri makes a little shes slightly crazy
signal

they all leap to avoid her butt as she bustles into
the house

int drawing room  day

sophie flanked by her sisters sits at a table anya
looking nervous but poised sits across while dmitri and
vladimir hover nervously at the far end of the room

sophies pat cat tillie attempts to cuddle up next to
meetoo who wants nothing to do with her

                       sophie
         id just like to ask you a
         few questions dear

sophie opens a huge book that slams open vlad and
dmitri jump

                       anya
         of course

                       sophie
         where were you born

scene continues mos

time lapse montage

dmitri watches anya answer questions gracefully and
without hesitating anya smiles as her answers begin
to surprise sophie

                       dmitri v0
         the real anastasia couldnt have
         grown up to be lovelier


sophie and the sisters look tired sophie has her last
question

                       sophie
              almost giggling
         this is the hard one  what rare
         treat was served on the night of
         the three hundredth anniversary of
         the romanov dynasty the last ball
         they ever had

dmitri and vladimir exchange a nervous look its
obvious they never briefed anya on this one

anya thinks a moment then looks up smiling as
she remembers 

                       anya
         father had fresh tropical fruits
         sent in oranges and pineapples
         from the far east i remember 
         i remember i threw an orange to a
         young boy who was hiding under a
         table

dmitri is shocked he know this is anastasia romonov
and he cant believe it

                       sophie
              shocked
         yes  yes it was fresh fruit
         well maybe not fresh estelle
         got one rather brown banana but 

close on

dmitri as he stares at anya as sophie prattles on

minutes later

anya sits near the window stroking tillie 
much to the consternation of a jealous meetoo
she looks out the window and sees dmitri deep
in thought wandering in the garden

out of her earshot at the other end of the room
vladimir speaks to sophie

                       vladimir
         are you impressed with our anastasia

                       sophie
         oh heavens  i must say yes

                       vladimir
         then youll take her to see
         tatiana

                       sophie
         oh heavens i must say no no
         actually i cant  tatiana has
         refused to see any more girls

                       vladimir
         perhaps you could convince her

                       sophie
         oh heavens no but 
	      vladleans closer as
		sophie shares a
		naughty secret
         she is going to be at the
         ballet russe tonight thats
         the russian ballet  russe for
         russian oh those crazy
         french they only go to see
         which dancers will defect

she rises heading towards anya her butt knocks over
a vase which vladimir deftly catches

                       sophie
         come my dear weve much to
         talk about

ext garden

vladimir has finished giving dmitri the details
both are ecstatic

                       vladimir
         we did it we did it my boy were
         going to see tatiana at the ballet
         tonight and were going to be rich
         rich

                       dmitri
         but its not	the money vlad

                       vladimir
              shocked
         are you feeling all right

                       anya cont
              deeply grateful
         but you never doubted who i was
         did you dmitri not for a second 

anya gratefully kisses dmitri an the cheek and
runs into the house vladimir whos been watching
has a warning

                       vladimir
         life is funny isnt it you find
         the right girl  and then you
         lose her

                       dmitri
         what do you mean

                       vladimir
         dmitri  you must understand that
         once you take her to tatiana well
         its over nothing can happen between
         you shes a princess and youre a
         commoner

dmitri understands this and is devastated vladimir pats
him on the back as he walks into the house

music begins bright exciting paris in the twenties

anya and dmitri followed by vlad and sophie are walking
down the champs elysees meetoo trots along after them
happily they walk by an accordion player and a lady flower
seller who watch them and whisper to each other

                       accordion player
          lovers

                       flower seller
          ooh la laparis holds the key to your heart production number

in uptempo paris in the twenties style music the people of
paris all sing welcoming anya and dmitri sophie and vlad
to paris

the foursome explores the city and anya has the
happiest day of her young life on the streets they
encounter the motley denizens of paris as well as
people with very familiar faces  for anyone in the
audience in the know theyll see josephine baker
maurice chevalier rodin gertrude stein freud
lindbergh  people who were in paris in the twenties
for those in the audience who dont recognize them
theyll simply be unidentified fascinating types who sing

as the joyous number progresses we realize that dmitri
is feeling something else  the impending loss of anya
to a world where she clearly is at home he sings for a
short moment knowing that hes about to lose her anya
visits a couturier and comes out with a big dress box
for her evening at the ballet a big finale as they go
off for the evening even meetoo has found some female
poodle companionship but for one last beat dmitris
wistfulness cuts against joy

end musical numberext paris skyline  dusk

a glorious sunset over the city of lights 

pan down

to the other side of the tracks a run down area
next to the seine river rasputins wagon is
parked on the edge

int	rasputins wagon

bartok freshens himself up in front of the mirror as he

                       bartok
                    singing a cappella
          parse holds the key to my heart
          french bat chicks hang out at
          montmartre
          well eat some insects
          then go back and have 

                       rasputin oc
                    cutting him off
          shut up

new angle

showing rasputin trying to concentrate on the reliquary

                       bartok
          sorry its just you know i saw these
          french postcards once and ooh la la 
          well im not sure about the ooh but
          its the la la im really lookin
          forward to
                    rasputin growls
          right im shutting up

rasputin leans closer to the reliquary which now contains
the brightest colors weve seen the reliquary sits in
its cabinet

                       rasputin
          were close to her arent we

the reliquary brightens even more looking as if it could
burst

                       rasputin cont
          excited eh you look about to burst 
                    teasing
          youd like to burst wouldnt you

the lightsin the reliquary shake as if to say yes

                       rasputin cont
          no no no we made a bargain
                    petting it
          someday youll have me for all eternity
          till then
                    leaning closer
          im in charge

rasputin slams the cabinet shut then turns to see bartok
in front of a mirror he wears a smart black beret which
is much too large on him

                       bartok
          what do you think is it me

ext small hotel  night

sweet small french hotel on a winding cobble stone street
of the left bank

int small hotel  night

dmitri and vladimir are both dressed in formal attire and
look extremely dapper vlad is delighted with himself
modeling his finery but dmitri looks very sad

                       vladimir
          compliments of sophie her escort
          has to look his best

they turn as the door opens and anya stands nervously
but then strikes a regal pose she looks magnificent 
radiant which is not lost on dmitri

                       anya
          how do i look

before vladimir can gush dmitri forced to repress his
true feelings is a bit curt and rises

                       dmitri

          fine	we better go

anya looks surprised by his tone but follows

ext	paris opera house  night

as the beautiful people of paris pull up in carriages and
automobiles

int	paris opera house

as dmitri vladimir and anya take their seats all around
them people are whispering whos that what a beautiful
woman etc the ballet begins

anyas pov

dancers in bright costumes leap across the stage

dmitri turns to anya and gestures to the box seats to the
left he hands her the opera glasses

                       dmitri
          look there is your grandmother

anya gives dmitri a very nervous look and takes the glasses
aiming them toward tatiana

anyas pov

the majestic tatiana flanked by sophie and her sisters and
backed by several large guards in uniform 

                       anya
          shes so beautiful i do remember
          her  i remember her 

the music continues as anya looks at tatiana

intermission

the lights come up and people around them begin to stand
up stretch etc dmitri turns to anya

                       dmitri
          come on its time

int mezzanine  minutes later

they approach tatianas private box

dmitri wait here for just a moment ill go in first and
prepare her its bound to be a shock

                       anya
          im so scared

                       dmitri
          dont be

                       anya

          and grateful to you
                    reaching out to him
          if it werent for you 

                       dmitri
                    upset pulling away
          i know

dmitri opens the door into tatianas private box anya
waits nervously outside

int	private box

dmitri walks up to the guards standing at the top of three
small steps into the box seats

                       dmitri
          i need to speak with the
          dowager empress 

page missing

                       tatiana cont
          how much pain will you inflict
          on an old woman for money

                       dmitri
          please if youd just listen

                       tatiana
                    to guards
          remove him at once

the guards physically force dmitri out in spite of his
urgent pleas

                       dmitri
          please empress its not what you 

dmitri is thrown out of the box and straight into anya
who stares at him with tears in her eyes she then turns
and runs away

                       dmitri
          anya   please   

int lobby

anya pushes her way through the crowd with dmitri in pursuit

ext opera house  night

anya bursts out of the doors followed by dmitri

                       dmitri
          anya wait

                       anya
                    spinning on him
          tell me it isnt true tell me
          you didnt do this for the money

                       dmitri
          no well yes but

                       anya
          no i thought you believed in
          me it was all a lie

ext	paris opera

dmitri runs out and stands by grand looking automobiles
lined up in front he scans the cars

dmitris pov

tatiana is walking toward her car a very proper chauffeur
holds the door for her

the chauffeur helps tatiana in then is about to climb
into the front seat when dmitri rushes up to him

                       dmitri
          sir your rear tire is flat

                       chauffeur
          it is

as he gets out to look dmitri slides into the drivers
seat and roars away the stunned chauffeur in his dust

int car

tatiana is jolted by the fast motion of her car

                       tatiana
          ulo slow down

dmitri turns from the front seat and looks at her

                       dmitri
          im not ulo and i wont slow down
          but you will listen to me

                       tatiana
                    recognizing dmitri
          you how dare you stop this car
          immediately

ext	paris streets

tatianas car flying down small streets

int	tatianas  car

                       tatiana
          stop this car



the car slams to a stop in front of the small hotel
dmitri leans into the back seat facetoface with her

                       dmitri
          please dont be afraid im sorry
          but there was no other way

tatiana is frightened but still very stubborn she looks
away from him dmitri thrusts the music box into her hands

                       dmitri cont
          look at this

tatiana looks down and is immediately taken aback

                       tatiana
          anastasias music box she had this
          all these years
                    fighting the possibility
          you could have found it

                       dmitri
          what ifoundyour was your granddaughter

tatiana turns away from him again

                       dmitri cont
          you were right  itwasa lie
          my intention was to fool you
                    sadly
          i am a liar  but i found the
          truth just see her i swear
          if you see her ill disappear
          forever

dmitri points up to the open window of the hotel

                       dmitri cont
          just look just look at her

tatiana finally looks out the window

tatianas pov

anya holding meetoo in front of the window

back to tatiana

reacting to how much she looks like anastasia

int small hotel  a minute later

anya hears a knock and assumes it is dmitri

                       anya
          go away

the door opens slowly anya spins then softens when she
sees tatiana holding the music box

                       tatiana
          who are you child

                       anya
                    crying
          i dont know i dont want to hurt you

tatiana holds out the music box

                       tatiana
          do you remember this

                       anya
          i remember something lost 
          im so confused oh please
          just tell me if you recognize me
          do you think i could have
          belonged to you 

tatiana notices anya nervously playing with the key around
her neck tatiana reacts when she sees the key

                       tatiana
          oh where did you get that

anya sees her looking at the key around her neck

                       anya
          ive always had it i came here
          because of this tell me if you recognize
          it please its all i haveunderscore	the music box themetatiana holds out her hands as anya takes off the key
and hands it to her

                       tatiana
                    through tears
          it was hers  my anastasias 
                    then suddenly angry
		          defensive
          if this is part of your scheme
          if you found it or stole  i
          dont care ill give you
          whatever you want just tell me
          the truth

anya takes the music box and the key out of tatianas
hand gently  remembering how it works anya puts in the
key and begins to wind it tatiana is surprised that anya
knows how it works  so is anya

                       tatiana cont
                    singing a cappella
          par away long ago glowing deep
          as an ember

                       anya
                    remembering
          things my hear used to know
          things it years to remember

we hear the music box begin to play

                       both
          and a song someone sings
          once upon a december

their cracking voices trail off as they look at each other
and know that they are who theyve been searching for 
and the search is finally over

tatiana and anya throw their arms around each other both
crying both overjoyed

tatiana anastasia anastasia youve come home at last
youve come home 

outside the window

dmitri watches anya and tatianas embrace he smiles sadly
then turns and walks down the dark street alone

ext anyas window

bartok slides his way out to the window ledge overcome with
emotion he is crying big bat tears

                       bartok
          he is gonna yellllll

ext rasputins wagon  night

hideous fat river rats ferocious looking and scarred
stop and tremble nervously when

                       rasputin oc
                    booming louder than ever before
          shell find her demise in that happy home

bartok catapults across the frame having been thrown out
of the window so hard that when he hits the stone wall of
the river bank the stones crack

                       bartok
          i should have been a dentist 

int anyas bedroom in tatianas house  night

anya snuggles down into the thick covers as tatiana
strokes her hair gently

                       anya
           and that christmas dinner
          when cook made that awful plum
          pudding and we hid it in our
          pockets so we wouldnt hurt her
          feelings i do remember so much
          now grandmama  but not everything

                       tatiana
          dont worry about that now child
          it will all come back to you now
          that youre home

anya closes her eyes as tatiana continues to stroke her hair

                       tatiana cont
                    quietly
          my poor child youre safe now
          youre home 

anya is asleep as tatiana kisses her forehead turns off
the light and walks to the door she looks back on her
sleeping granddaughter with enormous joy and gratitude
she smiles to herself as she pulls the door closed 
behind her revealing rasputin standing behind the door
his eyes glow like embers in the dark bartok is perched
on his shoulder

                       rasputin
          yesss  finally home and what
          a charming  girlish little home
          it is
                    gestures to cherubs
                       in the wallpaper
          look bartok little angels the
          symbol of  love so sweet so
          harmless

rasputin takes the reliquary from around his waist and
places it on the table

                       rasputin cont
          lets go for a touch of irony shall we

he waves his hand and the smoke emerges emanating toward
the walls

close on

some cherubs as the smoke hits them they begin to change
taking on a lean and evil look their tiny arrows grow
becoming lethal as their eyes turn from soft brown to
blood red slowly they emerge from the wallpaper their
small wings growing into horrible pterodactyl membranous
paired appendages

they swoop into flight and begin to circle the room faster
and faster rasputin leans precariously over the sleeping
anya chuckling

                       rasputin cont
          and there will be no blood on my hands 

rasputin backs away as the cherubs aim their jagged arrows
at anya

suddenly meetoo leaps up from the bed barking rasputin
startled jumps backward bartok falls off his shoulder and
on to the table knocking into the reliquary  which is about
to fall 

                       rasputin cont
          nooooooo

rasputin catches it the spell is immediately broken and
everything turns back to normal just as anya wakes up she
sees rasputin and lets out a scream

rasputin advances on her his hands outstretched as if to
strangle her when he hears footsteps and voices in the hallway

rasputin grabs the reliquary and leaps out the window his
monks robe billowing just as the door opens

tatiana rushes in and sees bartok flying out the window

                       tatiana
          anastasia it was just a bat
          its gone dear

                       anya
                    shaken
          no it wasnt a bat i saw this
          horrible man  i remember him
          i think

                       tatiana
                    comforting
          no no child shush its
          all right 

she embraces anya who is still terrified and knows
that she saw what she saw

int	tatianas house  day

anya sits looking a bit vacant as two overly french
jewelers pierre  andre fit anya for her royal crown

tatiana sits across from anya and cant help but notice
that anya looks miserable as sophie bustles about

                       sophie
          a grand ball for the princess
          how very exciting so much to do
          so little time

                       tatiana
                    slightly annoyed
          do it somewhere else please quietly

the slight is lost on sophie who bustles out talking to herself

                       sophie
          caterers  invitations  saber
          dancers we must have saber dancersrulers of russia comic reprise

sophie sings as comic reprise of rulers of russiapierre and andre argue as they fit anya for the crown

                       pierre
          her head it is  how you say

                       andre
          beeg zat is how you say it
          beeg

                       pierre
          and the crown she is  how you say

                       andre
          small zat is how you say it
          dont be so french pierre wit the
          how you say all za time  zat is
          really annoying

as they discuss this anya wanders away from them the crown
still slightly askew on her head tatiana follows her

                       tatiana
          you are going to make a beautiful
          princess

but anya simply nods tatiana turns her towards a full length
mirror then straightens the crown as they look at their
reflections

                       tatiana
          lovely
	          no reaction
          what troubles you child

but before anya can answer vladimir leans into the room

                       vladimir
          madame your eh guest has
          arrived

                       tatiana
                    knowing
          thank you vladimir

tatiana leaves and vladimir looks at anya anya angry
at him turns away

                       vladimir
          anya anastasia im sorry 
          we didnt mean to hurt you 

anya still wont look at him

int tatianas study

tatiana walks into her study and is happy to see dmitri
is standing there looking nervous and very uncomfortable

                       tatiana
          i sent for you because i owe you a
          debt of gratitude larger than i can
          ever repay

                       dmitri
          no empress you 

                       tatiana
          i want you to have the reward money 
          youve earned it

he leaps from his chair exploding with emotion

                       dmitri
          empress no i will not take the
          money i just came to tell you
          i was sorry

                       tatiana
          young	man i

dmitri flips his hair out of his eyes and tatiana gets
a look of recognition across her face

                       dmitri
           and im going to keep my
          promise to stay out of your
          lives forever

tatiana looks at him with great understanding and affection
as she realizes

                       tatiana
          you are the boy 

                       dmitri
                    uncomfortable
          i should go

                       tatiana
          that last night in the palace
          one boy showed us kindness and courage
          you were the boy who saved our lives
          werent you
                    dmitri doesnt answer
          please is there nothing i can do to
          repay you

                       dmitri
          promise me shell have her home

                       tatiana
          she does

                       dmitri
          and tell me that shes happy

                       tatiana
	  oh dmitrii wish that i could

dmitri comes down the steps then stops when he sees anya
wearing her crown

she turns and sees him stifling her first impulse then
putting on a show of supreme confidence

                       dmitri
          im glad you found what you
          were looking for

                       anya
          im glad you	did too

with nothing left to say he heads for the door

                       anya
          enjoy your fortune

dmitri spins but restrains he opens the door and
anya goes back into the parlor they both know that
they will never see each other again

int	little hotel  day

dmitri busily tosses his few possessions into his
backpack as vladimir  in formal attire  waves an
embossed invitation at him

                       vladimir
          but this invitation came
          from the empress herself
          its the social event of
          the decade you cant turn
          it down

                       dmitri
          watch me

vladimir starts to protest dmitri grabs the invitation
and tears it up tossing the pieces into the air
vladimir sighs

                       vladimir
          so where will you go

                       dmitri
          she found her home
          maybe its time i found
          one too

new pov

from outside the window we do not hear them but we
see vlad and dmitri hug goodbye

pull rack

to see its rasputins pov as he stands on a ladder
of smoke looking into dmitris window rasputin watches
vladimir leave as dmitri finishes packing

int	dmitris room

as the windows burst open and rasputin swoops in dmitri
backs away terrified as the ladder dissolves and smoke
fills the room

                       rasputin
          so you dont want to go to 
          the coronation eh

                       dmitri
                    recognizing him
          rasputin

                       rasputin
          i know i know  you thought i
          was dead thats how the history
          books will remember me  not as
          the ruler of all of russia
          which i should have been 
          but as the guy who was never
          dead when you expected him to be
          
dmitri backs away as the smoke coils around him and
rasputin advances

                       dmitri
          what do you want

                       rasputin
          the same thing i wanted ten 
          years ago  all the romonovs dead
          i got the others now i have
          to finish up with that nuisance 
          anastasia

                       dmitri
          youre insane you didnt
          kill the romonovs  it
          was the

                       rasputin
          stop it i did so kill them
          and im going to kill anastasia

dmitri lunges for him but the smoke coils around
him like rope holding him back

                       rasputin cont
          look at me
                    dmitri turns away
          look at me

the smoke forms into hands forcing dmitris face
toward rasputins dmitris eyes widen rasputin
locks on him with his eyes glowing like red hot
coals as he bears dmitri in hypnotically

                       rasputin cont
          you are going to help me
          kill her you are going
          to help me kill her
          her

on bartok

who looks away obviously not enjoying this
as we hear rasputin repeat you are going to
help me a few more times

ext	eiffel tower  night

magnificently the eiffel tower illuminates all of
paris when flood lights come on and we see a large
party has been set underneath its black iron legs
we hem trumpets as we

move in closer

to see that a stage has been set up on the north side
the seine side of the tower with a large thronelike
chair in the center beautiful party guests  many we
had seen in the opening ballroom scene mingle around
excitedly behind the stage a beautiful curtain separates
the party from

int behind the curtain

the princess anastasia in crown and full coronation gown
anastasia fidgets nervously looking for the key around
her neck then remembering it isnt there anymore as a
major russian domo addresses her and tatiana

                       major domo
           then as i say her serene highness
          princess anastasia you your highness
          should walk out on to the stage and
          greet your 

tatiana sees that anastasia isnt listening and dismisses
the major domo in mid sentence

                       tatiana
          i believe her highness understands 
          what she has to do

major domo bows and leaves tatiana looks at anastasia

                       tatiana cont
          dont you child

                       anya
          oh yes grandmama 
          i wait until i hear

                       tatiana
          no not about the ceremony
          anastasia  do you understand
          the choice you must make

anya turns to her in confusion

                       anya
          theres no choice

anya is cut off with a quick knock at the door
as sophie and vladimir enter bowing to them both
vladimir has meetoo all dressed up in bows and
ribbons  and looking miserable  on a leash

                       vladimir
                    to tatiana
          your guest is unable to attend

tatiana is troubled by this news anya starts
laughing when she sees meetoo

                       anya
          oh meetoo you look miserable
          oh vlad  look at him

                       vladimir
                    formally
          yes your highness

                       anya
          poor meetoo

                       vladimir
                    formally
          yes your highness

                       anya
          cut it out vlad im not
          angry with you anymore 
          i know how much you needed
          the money

                       tatiana
          but they didnt take the money 
          either one of them i offered it
          to them but they both refused

anya is shocked she takes a minute to process this as

                       anya
          dmitri didnt want the money

                       tatiana
          no he just wanted to know
          you were happy

                       vladimir
                    taking sophies hand
          fortunately i am to be married
                    backing away
          with your highness permission

                       anya
          vlad stop acting this way 
          youre my friend

                       vladimir
          no from now on i am your
          loyal subject  your
          highness by your leave

to anyas dismay vlad and sophie bow and back out of the room

                       anya
          why does everyone have to
          act that way

                       tatiana
          youll have to become used
          to it child if you accept
          the crown

                       anya
          if i accept of course
          im going to accept its
          what i always wanted

                       tatiana
          is it is this what you want

tatiana gestures to the formality outside

                       anya
          i wanted to come home
          grandmama  and i did
          i came back to my home
          with you

                       tatiana
          you cant go back to find your 
          home your home is in your heart
          in the future that you make for
          yourself

                       anya
          and this is my future this is 
          who i am

                       tatiana
          this is who you were exactly 
          who you are is up to you
          
                       anya
          i dont know who i am
          i still dont know

                       tatiana
          yes you do you do

tatiana kisses her on the forehead

                       tatiana cont
          and in your heart you know what
          is right for you

tatiana turns to leave
          

                       anya
          ive spent my whole
          life waiting to find you 

                       tatiana
          and we have found each other
          nothing will ever change that
          i am your family dear child
          but i may not be your home

tatiana leaves anya is very torn anya jumps as
the trumpets sound announcing her entrance

int ballroom  night

the courtiers gather excited as the major domo
readies to make his announcement

int ante room eiffel tower

anya thinking about what tatiana has said looks
at herself in the mirror

anyas pov

the princess anastasia but not anya

                       major domo oc
                    announcing
          her serene highness the princess 
          anastasia

pause	we hear mummers from the crowd outside various
wheres anastasia then

                       dmitri oc
          anya

anya spins around looking for him his voice seems
distant and ghostly

                       dmitri oc
          anya 


anya follows his voice out of the room and into the
elevator the doors close

ext elevator

as it rises gently to the very top of the eiffel tower
not on cables  but on long ropes of smoke

ext	top of eiffel tower

rasputin gleeful sits perched on a girder looking down
at the party below

                       rasputin
          look bartok most of them were
          there the night i made this curse
          now theyll get to see it finished
                    sighing content
          revenge is a dish best served in
          front of a larrrrrge audience

rasputin leans over the rail and looks down at the party

                       rasputin cont
          do not despair ill make sure your 
          beloved princess drops in      

rasputin chuckles at his own wit

                       bartok
                    depressed
          ahh very witty theres this
          english guy  noel coward 
          ill bet hes quaking 

on the elevator

as the door open and anya rushes out looking around

                       anya
          dmitri

dmitri is standing  like a zombie  at the far end
of the platform anya sees him

                       anya
          dmitri  grandmama told me

she stops she can tell that something isnt right
with dmitri by the look in his eyes

                       anya
          dmitri whats wrong

dmitri approaches her slowly zombielike arms
outstretched

                       rasputin
                    from above
          throw her off the edge do it

anya looks up at the booming voice

anyas pov

sees rasputin

back to anya flashes rapid images

rasputin from the last night at the palace

young anastasia  terrified

orange flash of gunshots

young dmitri leading them out the wall panel then the
face of the young dmitri superimposes over the zombie who
is coming toward her

                       anya
          dmitri  look at me
          its anya its anya

dmitri stops his eyes glazed and frightening

                       anya
          you saved my life in the
          palace you wont take
          it now

                       rasputin
                    from above
          finish her

anya holds her ground as dmitri moves toward her
ready to push her off the
edge

                       anya
          dmitri i know you would
          never hurt me you love me

as dmitri come close she moves toward him and
kisses him he blinks and snaps out of it and is
quite happy that anya is kissing him

                       anya
          dmitri

                       dmitri
          anya where are we

we hear a howl from above and suddenly rasputin
jumps down the reliquary tied to his waist hes
more furious than weve ever seen him  his face
literally consumed with rage and hatred

anya is terrified  but holds her ground as she did
when she was a child

                       anya
          i guess you arent as
          powerful as you thought

rasputin walks slowly toward anya and dmitri burning with rage

                       rasputin
          ill show you

                       dmitri
          run anya   go

                       anya
          im not leaving you

                       rasputin
          fighting for fair lady how noble

dmitri pushes anya away and charges the much larger
rasputin who knocks his aside with on swoop of big
huge arm

                       rasputin cont
          and how pathetic

rasputin turns to anya climbing up a girder

                       rasputin cont
          thats only going to make you
          fall farther

anya turns suddenly and kicks rasputin in the face
which has the same effect as kicking a brick wall
anya is thrown off balance and falls rasputin pushes
her with his foot and she slides across the floor to
dmitri

anya and dmitri exchange a quick look as rasputin
chuckling advances on them anya reaches up and grabs
rasputins beard pulling his face forward so that
dmitri can give him a good roundhouse punch

the blow does little but enrage rasputin he reaches
out and with one huge hand picks anya like a rag doll
and takes her to the ledge

                       dmitri
          anya

dmitri throws himself against rasputin several times
only to get batted away like a fly realizing this is
futile dmitri slips through the floor girders and
scurries towards the edge below tem

dmitri pov rasputins large boots above him heading
for the edge

above

rasputin reaches the edge playful dangling the
struggling anya over the side

                       rasputin
          my curse is now complete
          goodbye babushka

anya looks over the ledge

anyas pov

the city below as she falls dmitri emerges from the
grid below and grass her holding on to the back of
her dress

                       dmitri
          take my hand
                    sees rasputin approaching
          hurry

she manages to spin around gripping his hand

                       anya
          dont let me go

                       dmitri
          ill never let go

close

their hands gripping one another

                       rasputin oc
          what a touching sentiment

they look up to see his right above them rasputins
boot smashes down on dmitris hand which grips the
girder

dmitri screams out	in but doesnt let go he
looks down at anya and pulls her up while rasputin
begins to pry off dmitris fingers one at a time

                       rasputin
          this little piggy had a palace
          this little piggy had a throne

anya swings to another beam and now has firm footing as
rasputin continues

                       rasputin cont
          this little piggy missed the firing
          squad

dmitri is literally holding on with two fingers

                       rasputin cont
          and this little piggy wanted a home
          and this little piggy went wee wee
          wee all the way down

as dmitris last finger is preyed away he falls but
his grasp on anyas hand is firm and she pulls him
onto where she is standing

rasputin leans over and bends toward them three feet
from anya

                       rasputin cont
          die


the reliquary is dangling anya reaches up to grab on to
it but her aim is off and she hits it the reliquary flies
and smashes against the side of the tower shattering
rasputin realizes what has happened and scrambles away
in terror

                       rasputin cont
          nooooooooo

on bartok

who covers his eyes

on anya and dmitri

who climb back up to the platform

long shot

of the eiffel tower as the evil spirits from the
reliquary burst out the spirits take on all the forms
weve seen earlier bears minions snakes and
combinations of all they grow and swirl with hideous
moaning noises

anya and dmitri huddle together in disbelief

on rasputin

as the spirits begin to swarm around him a tornado of
horrid beings re screams as they pull him off the
ground

on anya and dmitri

as the force of the tornado increases they have to
hold on to the girders and each other in order not to
be sucked in bartok is thrown against the side of the
tower and slithers to the floor

on rasputin

suspended over the eiffel tower in the maelstrom he
screams wildly as the spirits encircle his torment
him and explode  pieces fly and disintegrate in midair
in wild colors and smoke

on dmitri and anya

who hug each other in relief they stand looking out
the smoke dissipates showing them the city lights below

on bartok

who rises patting his chest hes about to let out
a bartokism but all the emerges are little bat squeaks
hes surprised as first then thrilled the spell is
broken and hes just a bat again

dmitri and anya

as he reaches down and picks up the crown that fell off
her head in the fight he hands it to her

                       dmitri
          come on ill take you home

anya looks lovingly at dmitri and doesnt put the crown back on

                       anya
          i am homehone is where you are

the love duet for anya and dmitri a simple emotional
ballad for two people who realize at last that their hearts
have led then to each other to home this will work within
the dramatic context of the film sung by the characters but
can also be rerecorded as a pop singlethe song continues over various scenes

the empty stage

tatiana smiling knowingly

sophie  vladimir

sneaking a kiss in the middle of the party xenia and estelle
look at each other with their stone faces  and smile

bartok

hanging from the rafters of the eiffel tower no sure what
to do next  then a cute female bat flies up next to his and
bats her eyes

anya  dmitri

walking over the river bridge with meetoo following behind
them a family  going home together

fade out

the end