bamboozled

				by

				spike lee




black screen

we hear the voice of malcolm x

				malcolm x vo
			youve been hoodwinked  youve
			been had  youve been took
			youve been led astray run amok
			youve been bamboozled

his followers roar

cut to title

bamboozled

cut to crawl

white letters on black

we hear the voice of pierre delacroix

				delacroix vo
			satire  1a  a literary work in
			which human vice or folly is
			ridiculed or attacked scornfully
			b  the branch of literature that
			composes such work  2  irony
			derision or caustic wit used to
			attack or expose folly vice or
			stupidity

int apartment  morning

we are in the living quarters of pierre delacroix  the
windows overlook the brooklyn promenade and the majestic
lower manhattan skyline

				delacroix vo
			bonjour my name is pierre delacroix
			im a television writer also a
			showrunner a creative person

we see a tall figure move in and around the space

				delacroix vo contd
			im one of those people responsible
			for what you view on your idiot box

close on

monogrammed cuff sleeve  the initials pd

										2


				delacroix vo contd
			the problem is not enough of you
			have been watching

close on

monogrammed shirt pocket  the initials pd

				delacroix vo contd
			with the onslaught of the internet
			video and interactive games nine
			hundred channels to choose from and
			whatnot our valued audience has
			dramatically eroded

close on

razor cuts a path through a white foam on a black face

				delacroix vo contd
			to put it in much more simple
			terms

delacroix yells

				delacroix vo contd
			like rats fleeing a sinking ship

close on

the handsome face of pierre delacroix

				delacroix vo contd
			people tuning out by the millions

delacroix turns to the camera and addresses us

				delacroix contd
			which is not good

ext tenement  lower east side  morning

the tenement building is boarded up condemned bombed out
but a home a shelter nonetheless

int tenement  morning

people to our surprise live in here  it is a commune  the
homeless people who have been left out forgot about
written off and dont matter  the fringes of society

cheeba a skinny puerto rican male tries to wake a
slumbering body under a mass of old newspapers

										3


				cheeba
			yo lets get to it  you dont
			dance we dont eat  simple as that

the mass begins to move

				cheeba contd
			thats right  we slow  we blow
			we snooze  we lose

int cns tower  morning

manray a young africanamerican dreadlock male and cheeba
are getting set up in front of the entrance to the
continental network system building  cns is one of the
fledgling upstart new networks trying to battle with abc
nbc cbs fox wb and upn

angle on

entrance  cheeba is putting the portable floor down on the
sidewalk  manray sits on the curb taking the sneakers off
and putting on his tap shoes bottle caps are on the soles
of the shoes instead of real taps

				cheeba
			good morning ladies and gentlemen
			i know everybody is in a hurry to
			work ready to begin another day in
			this rat race  but dont sleep us
			im cheeba and i introduce to you
			the world renown manray the man
			with the educated feet

manray takes a small bow  a few not many people have
stopped to look

				cheeba contd
			as we continue our world wind tour
			we would like to give you a little
			somethin somethin before you go
			off to make that money  i give you
			manray

close on

manray who starts to do his thing and when he starts doing
his thing attention must be paid

angle on

crowd as manray gets busy people gather to watch

angle on

										4


delacroix he is about to walk into the cns building but
stops to check out manray

close on

manray he pounds out some intricate steps and freezes at
the end of the move

angle on

crowd who applaud as cheeba unfolds a brown shopping bag
and holds it out in front of them

				cheeba contd
			thank you very much but please
			dont go without giving us some
			cheddar cheese money  we prefer
			twos than fews

people are digging into their pockets

				cheeba contd
			i would like to add that both of us
			are homeless  not that it means
			anything

a woman is about to dump some change in the brown paper bag

				cheeba contd
			i said homeless  ladies and
			gentlemen  senorita do you know
			what that means

cheeba looks at her and she quickly pulls out a 5spot from
her purse and drops it into the bag

				cheeba contd
			muchos gracias

cheeba works his way over to delacroix

				delacroix
			good morning cheeba

				cheeba
			good morning to you mr delapot

				delacroix
			delacroix

				cheeba
			yknow what i mean  got a gig yet
			for manray and i yet

										5


				delacroix
			not yet

delacroix hands cheeba a ten dollar bill

				cheeba
			gracias

delacroix moves towards the revolving doors of cns

				delacroix
			manray sloan says youre too
			talented to be dancing on the street

				manray
			well do something about it

int elevator  morning

delacroix is the lone person of color in the elevator

int cns  morning

delacroix gets off the elevator takes out his id slips it
through the scanner and enters the reception area of cns

				delacroix
			good morning marie

				marie
			its not gonna be a good morning
			for you if you dont get into
			dunwittys staff meeting

				delacroix
			what staff meeting

				marie
			the staff meeting that started 30
			minutes ago

int conference room  morning

delacroix walks or better yet slithers into the staff
meeting that is already in progress  twenty writers sit
around an oval table all are caucasian except delacroix
again hes the lone person of color the fly in the
buttermilk

dunwitty senior vp of the entertainment division of cns
looks at delacroix and waits for him to sit down before he
continues

										6


				dunwitty
			monsieur delacroix this very
			important meeting commenced

dunwitty looks at his rolex chronograph  daytona model

				dunwitty contd
			exactly thirtytwo minutes ago

				dunwitty
			im sorry im late

				dunwitty
			do you know how much information
			can be dispensed in one minute alone

				delacroix
			i didnt find out about this very
			important staff meeting until

delacroix looks at his jaegerlecoultre

				delacroix contd
			four minutes ago

				dunwitty
			so are you telling me everyone knew
			about this gettogether except you

				delacroix
			i wasnt told about this until
			marie informed me as soon as i got
			off the elevator

all eyes are on delacroix and he feels it

				dunwitty
			people you can attempt to pull a
			rodman like our friend delacroix
			but i guarantee youll be sent
			packing just like him

dunwitty via remote turns off the lights and turns on an
overhead projector

				dunwitty contd
			these are the standings  read em
			and weep  as you can plainly see
			the continental network system is
			languishing

close on

ratings charts

										7


				dunwitty os contd
			look at em people  we are booty
			ca ca  we are doodoo  doodoo on
			a stick if you will

close on

dunwitty

				dunwitty contd
			i do not like to be the laughing
			stock of the broadcast industry  i
			have pride and people you better
			start getting some too  these
			numbers have to go up

dunwitty turns on the lights  joan one of the writers
raises her hand

				dunwitty contd
			question

				joan
			so what do you want us to do

				dunwitty
			what i want everyone to do is write
			some material that is funny  the
			junk youve been writing is about
			as funny as a dead baby  its not
			funny its not new  its not sexy
			it it it

close on

fish

				fish
			sucks

angle on

conference room

				dunwitty
			sucks  thank you fish  this
			meeting is over but i want everyone
			to seriously think about what i
			said and how you can deliver

people scurry out

				dunwitty contd
			monsieur delacroix in my office now

										8


int hallway  morning

the writers beat down come out of the conference room and
move past sloan hopkins a highly attractive african
american sistuh

delacroix sees sloan and holds her arm as they walk  he
talks under his breath

				sloan
			how was it

				delacroix
			why didnt you tell me about this
			staff meeting

				sloan
			nobody told me anything

				delacroix
			what good are you if you dont tell
			me stuff like this

				sloan
			it wasnt my fault  if i would
			have known i would have known

int dunwittys office  morning

delacroix enters his corner office which has huge action
photos of ali jordan griffey tyson aaron and jabbar on
his walls it is also decorated with african art throughout

angle on

office  dunwitty looks at the floortoceiling windows
overlooking midtown manhattan

				dunwitty
			do you know what cp time is

				delacroix
			cp time is colored peoples time
			the stereotypical belief that
			negroes are always late  that
			negroes have no sense of time 
			time except when it comes to music
			or dance

they both laugh

				dunwitty
			lets sit down over there

										9


dunwitty and delacroix sit on the sofa

				dunwitty contd
			im sorry about my blowup but i
			have to have a whipping boy every
			meeting

				delacroix
			i understand  but again in all
			honesty i was not informed

				dunwitty
			forget it  i believe youre my
			most creative person ive got on
			staff  youre hip  you know
			whats happening  i got some corny
			white boys and girls writing for me

delacroix doesnt join him in his laughter because he
doesnt know how to take that comment or where dunwitty is
headed with it

				dunwitty contd
			i understand black culture  i grew
			up around black people all my life
			if the truth be told i probably
			know niggers better than you
			monsieur delacroix  please dont
			get offended by my use of the
			quoteunquote n word  i got a
			black wife and three biracial
			children so i feel i have a right
			to use that word  i dont give a
			damn what spike says tarantino is
			right  nigger is just a word  if
			dirty ole bastard can use it every
			other word so can i

				delacroix
			i would prefer you not use that
			word in my presence

				dunwitty
			nigger  nigger  nigger  nigger

delacroix pounces on top of dunwitty like a cat on a mouse
and gives him a quick brooklyn beat down

				delacroix
			say it again  cmon say it again

close on

dunwitty  hes a bloody pulp

										  10


close on

delacroix

he straightens his tie

				delacroix contd
			whos a nigger now

pow  this is a fantasy in delacroixs mind  we go back to
reality  everythings how we left it

				dunwitty
			the material youve been creating
			is too white bread  white people
			with black faces  the huxtables
			cosby revolutionary  but thats
			dead  we cant go down that road
			again

				delacroix
			i dont agree  the negro middle
			class does exist and its rich
			material for a dramatic series or
			sitcom

				dunwitty
			im telling you its not

he goes to his desk picks up delacroixs scripts and starts
throwing them one by one against the window

				dunwitty contd
			the middle class black family moves
			into a white suburban enclave  the
			middle class black family moves
			into a small southern town that is
			run by the kkk  the middle class
			single black father raises his
			teenage daughter  the middle class
			single black father raises his
			teenage daughter  the middle class
			single black mother raises her
			teenage son  and so on and so
			forth  its too clean too
			antiseptic

				delacroix
			to white  i still feel all of
			my scripts would make good shows

										  11


				dunwitty
			delacroix wake up brother man
			the reason why they didnt get
			picked up was because nobody  and
			i mean nobody  niggers and crackers
			alike wants to see that junk

				delacroix
			ive never been given a fair shot

				dunwitty
			you got your head stuck up your ass
			with your harvard education and
			your pretentious ways  brother
			man im blacker than you  im
			keepin it real and youre frontin
			trying to be white

				delacroix
			im an oreo a sell out  because i
			dont aspire to do homeboys from
			out of space secret diary of
			desmond pfeiffer a pjs or some as
			you might put it some nigger
			show  im a tom  im whiter than
			white and youre blacker than black
			is that what you think

				dunwitty
			thats exactly what i think  i
			want you to create something that
			people want to see  lets be
			honest the majority of the people
			in the country are deaf dumb and
			blind and im including 35 million
			africanamericans  you know and i
			know niggers set the trend set
			the styles  this is a golden
			opportunity now  these idiots have
			to be led to the water

				delacroix
			im not sure if i can deliver what
			you want

				dunwitty
			you will or youll be back at bet
			so quick youll never know what hit
			you  i need a midseason
			replacement and pronto  it will be
			on the fast track

										  12


				delacroix
			what is it you want from me  some
			plantation follies  some sitcom
			that takes place on a watermelon
			patch  some show that follows four
			nigger generations of junkies and
			crackheads  you want me to go back
			to the ante bellum days

				dunwitty
			yes  yes  yes  i want a show
			that will make headlines that will
			have millions and millions of
			households tuned in glued to their
			televisions every week  i want
			advertisers dying to buy on this
			show  im gonna squeeze this show
			out of you if it kills you

ext tenement  night

we see a street lamp and coming out of it are some wires
we follow the wires into a tenement building

the residents have tapped into a street light courtesy of
con edison for power

int apartment  night

cheeba stands in front of the makeshift kitchen which
includes a hot plate and prepares a gourmet meal of a tasty
spanish dish  the clean apartment is furnished with stuff
people have thrown out that they picked up on the street

				manray
			im starvin like marvin

				cheeba
			my world famous famous world arroz
			con pollo will be ready very soon

				manray
			hurry up i wanna watch hbo

				cheeba
			did we get our bill yet

they both laugh

				manray
			i guess that will come with the
			rent gas and con ed bills too

										  13


				cheeba
			ahh the luxuries of life

				manray
			yo check it  this is good and all
			that but one day soon i want to
			have much benjamins so i can have a
			nice crib and pay all my bills
			you hear me

				cheeba
			chill im the brains behind this
			outfit

				manray
			and im the feet

				cheeba
			yo you gotta show some patience
			you want me to snap my fingers and
			presto chango  youre an overnight
			sensation  son there is no such
			thing

				manray
			im tired of waiting

int delacroixs apartment  night

he sits in front of a large flatscreen television watching
the yankee game and eating his takeout chinese food  on top
of the monitor he has attached a sign that reads feed the
idiot box

int sloans studio apartment  night

she sits in front of her television hand on remote flipping
channels and eating takeout chinese food

int cheeba and manrays apartment  night

they both are devouring the chicken with rice as they watch
bootleg hbo

int delacroixs apartment  night

delacroix sits at his desk a ream of white bond paper in
front of him a box of numbertwo pencils and an electric
pencil sharpener

				delacroix vo
			i was never good at performing
			under the gun

										  14


close

pencil after pencil gets inserted and sharpened to a knife
like point

				delacroix vo contd
			well this wasnt a gun it was a
			bazooka and it was pressed dead
			blank right against my dome

close on

delacroix staring at the blank ream of paper  it is very
intimidating

close on

monitor  bernie williams is at the plate for the new york
yankees

close on

sign atop monitor  again it reads feed the idiot box

int sloans studio apartment

she too is blank  a screen saver bobs and weaves on her
laptop

int delacroixs apartment

delacroix grabs a pencil and put it to paper

close on

paper  he doodles

int tenement building  night

manray screws out the bare light bulb which is the sole
source of illumination and lays down onto his mattress on
the floor

int sloans studio apartment

sloan closes her laptop and jumps into her bed

int delacroixs apartment

delacroix is already in the bed the lights are out

close on

delacroix whos wide awake

										  15


int tenement building  night

manray and cheeba are both sound asleep

close on

cheeba he has a sheet pulled over his head

close on

manray whos sawing logs snoring loudly

offscreen we hear a ruckus a big commotion  voices
yelling  police sirens cars and trucks

angle on

apartment  cheeba and manray run to the window and look out

their pov

the street is filled with police cars vans and wagons
helicopters hover overhead with their searchlights on the
building

				cheeba
			oh snap  its a raid

cheeba and manray jump into their cloths

ext tenement building  night

cops in riot gear storm into the tenement  a police chief
barks over a speaker system

				police chief
			please evacuate this building  all
			of you are illegal residents of
			this condemned building  please
			leave immediately by order of the
			mayor of new york city rudolph
			giuliani

int tenement building  night

stairwell  its bedlam  the hundreds of squatters who have
been living here all making a bad dash trying to flee the
nypd as they bumrush the show

angle on

floor  cheeba and manray try to push against the crowd

										  16


				cheeba
			not this way  out through the fire
			escape

the cops are running up the staircase  people try to escape
with as many of their belongings that they can hold

				manray
			my tap shoes

int delacroixs apartment

				delacroix
			eureka

he jumps out of bed

int sloans studio apartment

				sloan
			oh my god

she too jumps out of bed

ext tenement building

it is a madhouse bedlam  its pandemonium  the squatters
are being seized as soon as they come out of the tenement
searchlights go back and forth as the cops make their
arrests and fill the paddy wagons

angle on

street  the squatters are like roaches in a dark kitchen at
night scrambling as the lights turn on  do you remember
those old raid commercials  lets scram its raid

int delacroixs apartment  night

the phone rings

cut to split screen

cu of delacroix and sloan

delacroix picks it up  they yell in unison

				delacroix
			manray

				sloan
			manray

										  17


				delacroix
			how did you know

				sloan
			it hit me like a ton of bricks

				delacroix
			how can this be  you and me at the
			same time the exact same thought
			its scary

				sloan
			the idea was out there in the
			universe  now what

int tenement building  night

cheeba and manray run down the fire escape and just elude a
group of cops

angle on

fence  they lay still as the fuzz run past them

				manray
			we ran out without my shoes and the
			floor  i gotta get my stuff  what
			about our savings

				cheeba
			are you crazy  the joint is
			crawling with cops now  you wanna
			go to rikers  go to the hoosegow

manray looks at his friend he knows he is right at least
this time

ext cns building  early morning

delacroix and sloan sip hot coffee as they stand in front of
their office building

				delacroix
			manray was under our nose the whole
			time

				sloan
			do you know how you will use him

				delacroix
			not yet but this thing will never
			get made

										  18


				sloan
			you lost me

				delacroix
			dunwitty wants a coon show  and
			thats what im going to give him
			its going to be so racist so
			negative he wont have the balls
			to put it on the air  hence ill
			prove my point

				sloan
			what point is that

				delacroix
			the point being that him the
			networks dont want black people on
			television unless they are buffoons

				sloan
			sounds risky to me

				delacroix
			you getting cold feet

				sloan
			im in till the end

				delacroix
			good  im going to need your
			support

				sloan
			cant you just quit  walk away

				delacroix
			and lose out on my money  the only
			way i get paid is if i get fired
			and thats what i intend to do

ext cns building  new day

it is pouring rain and delacroix and sloan huddle under an
umbrella

				delacroix vo
			everything was going according to
			plan  i was working on the outline
			dunwitty was off my back for now

close on

delacroix

										  19


				delacroix vo contd
			but there was a catch  a big catch

close on

sloan

				delacroix vo contd
			manray and cheeba were nowhere to
			be found

ext grand central station  day

manray and cheeba are soaking wet  they stand together in a
doorway trying to stay out of the elements

angle on

street  they run in the downpour

				delacroix vo
			it was like they had disappeared
			off the face of the earth

close on

cheeba

				delacroix vo contd
			i had no contact numbers no
			address no beeper

close on

manray

				delacroix vo contd
			no nuthin no clues

ext cns building  next morning

it is a sunny and pleasant morning  again sloan and
delacroix hold vigil

				sloan
			maybe something happened to them
			maybe theyre lying in an alley
			bleed to death

				delacroix
			manray better not be bleeding to
			death  i need him  after were
			done he can do whatever he wants to
			do until then hes ours

										  20


				sloan
			youre beginning to sound like
			dunwitty

ext tenement building  morning

manray and cheeba stand across the street from their former
residence  all of the doors and windows have been boarded
up and two cops stand watch  they both look defeated dirty
and hungry

int cns lobby  next day

sloan gets off the elevator and sees a skirmish  two
security guards are trying to escort manray and cheeba out
of the building

				cheeba
			his name is delapoint

				security guard 1
			we have no one by that name

				cheeba
			delapot  delasomething

				security guard 2
			de la soul aint here either
			lets go  out  off the premises

manray turns around and sees sloan

				manray
			sloan  she knows us

the security guard stops

				sloan
			its alright  they are associates
			of mr delacroix

				security guard 1
			sorry ms hopkins  they both
			walked in off the street without an
			appointment

				security guard 2
			do you need an escort

				sloan
			that wont be needed

										  21


int delacroixs office  day

he sits in front of his tv and watches a tape of the old
amos n andy show  sloan leads manray and cheeba in

				delacroix
			eureka  whereve you been

he hugs them both

				delacroix contd
			sloan and i have been looking all
			over for you

				cheeba
			youd take no offense if we called
			you dela for short

				delacroix
			no offense

				cheeba
			manray needs a job

delacroix smiles at sloan

				manray
			we got evicted from our home
			weve both been on the streets for
			the last week

				cheeba
			we was coming to see you

				manray
			if its not too much trouble could
			you order us some food

				cheeba
			were starving

				delacroix
			i apologize  what would you like
			to eat  anything you want

time cut

int delacroixs office  day

a feast of mcdonalds is taking place  cheeba and manray
are stuffing big macs fish deluxes and large french fries
into their mouths  they were famished

										  22


				delacroix
			i have this concept for a tv pilot
			theres no guarantee it will get
			made but regardless youll still
			make some money

				cheeba
			how much

				delacroix
			first things first  i have to know
			if manray is up for this

				manray
			what do i have to do

				delacroix
			some tap dancing some singing

				manray
			where do i sign

				cheeba
			what kind of show is this gonna be

				delacroix
			different

				manray
			how different

				delacroix
			trust me  of course i still have
			to pitch it to my boss but well
			have an answer one way or the other

				manray
			dela im aboard  as long as i get
			to hoof and get paid too

				delacroix
			thats right  money turns the wheel

				cheeba
			what about in the mean time  not
			the in between time

				delacroix
			youll both get an advance and you
			can stay with me

				manray
			bet

										  23


				delacroix
			i would like to change your name

				manray
			to what

				delacroix
			youre now mantan

				manray
			mantan  i dont even care as long
			as im dancing  which reminds me
			i need some new kicks

ext broadway  day

manray holds two capezio shopping bags of shoes as he walks
next to sloan

				manray
			i never had a really real pair
			before

				sloan
			youve never had any formal
			training either

				manray
			not a class not a thing just
			picked stuff up by myself

				sloan
			i wish i had your natural talent
			god only makes that visit once in a
			while

				manray
			you sing and dance

				sloan
			a little  i just graduated from
			nyu film school  cinema studies

				manray
			so whats up with you and dela

				sloan
			what do you mean

				manray
			are you and him kicking it
			knocking boots
			yknowwhatimtalkinbout

										  24


				sloan
			no were not knocking boots  i
			got this internship while i still
			was at nyu dela was impressed with
			my get up and go and hired me to be
			his assistant

				manray
			im sure that was the only thing he
			was impressed with  you look
			beautiful like that

				sloan
			if that was suppose to be a
			compliment i thank you

				manray
			youre welcome  you shouldnt give
			up on performing

				sloan
			why do you say that  youve never
			seen me

				manray
			i think that would probably make
			you the happiest  when im hoofing
			i mean really doing my thing
			hitting it nothing compares to
			that feeling in the world

				sloan
			i envy you  thats the way i want
			to feel about my work

ext harlem street  night

sloan walks from the subway to her block

angle on

street  a huge black chevy suburban follows her all the
windows are tinted jet black you cannot see it all into it
she notices the vehicle and starts to walk faster

angle on

corner  as sloan tries to cross at the corner the suburban
pulls up in front of her blocking her path

angle on

suburban  a tall black man jumps out of the chevy  this is
big black

										  25


				big black
			lil sister

angle on

corner

				sloan
			you idiot  you almost gave me a
			massive coronary

				big black
			i didnt mean to scare you like that

				sloan
			well you did

				big black
			give me some

				sloan
			im not huggin you in the middle
			of the street  you must be crazy
			julius

				big black
			whoa hold up lil sis  i done
			told you bout that  julius aint
			my name you better recognize
			hopkins was our slave name  my
			true name is

				sloan
			im not callin you big black africa
			mommy and daddy named you julius

				big black
			big black is the first name and
			africa is the last

he hugs her she becomes lost in his huge arms and laughs

int sloans studio apartment  night

big black is rummaging through his sisters refrigerator

				big black
			damn sis you dont keep no food
			up in here in dis piece

				sloan
			i order out mostly  so what do i
			owe this visit to

										  26


				big black
			my group we need some exposure
			was wondering if you could hook a
			brother up

				sloan
			hook you up  the maumaus  you
			must be smoking  why in the world
			would i want to hook up a bunch of
			red black and green flagwaving
			pseudo revolutionairies

				big black
			so now i see where youre coming
			from  just because we aint
			rapping about gucci timberland
			rolex benz cristal hos and
			bitches were pseudo

				sloan
			who are you revolting against

				big black
			were revolting against the powers
			that be that been enslaving the
			minds and hearts of all people of
			color  and we wont stop rapping
			till we bring about the overthrow
			of the government of the us of a

				sloan
			please

				big black
			if you were really down you would
			get us together with that boss of
			yours  whats his name again

				sloan
			delacroix

				big black
			yeah him

				sloan
			what makes you think he would write
			a show about the maumaus

				big black
			cmon why not  the monkees had a
			show  look at all that other junk
			thats on tv  we got underground
			cult following

										  27


				sloan
			you dont have the demographics

				big black
			so are you telling me that you
			wouldnt even introduce me to
			delacroix or set up a meeting  im
			talking bout me your only brother
			ya own flesh and blood hook a
			brother up youknowwhatimsayin

				sloan
			thatswhatimsayin  im not
			blowin my young career brother or
			no brother for you or anybody else

				big black
			there is a name a term for your
			kind the likes of you  back in
			slavery days you would be
			classified as a house nigga

				sloan
			if you think im a house nigga then
			thats your prerogative  you got
			your ways to affect change i have
			mine  and i would appreciate it
			very much if you took ya field
			nigga ass out of my house

				big black
			my own sister throwin me out  i
			hope to seeya later when you get ya
			mind right  dont bother letting
			me out

				sloan
			thats mighty black of you

big black slams the door

int dunwittys office  morning

one by one the team enters the office and sits down on the
sofa

				dunwitty
			delacroix im glad you got your
			mind right

				delacroix
			its right and tight  good morning
			let me introduce you to everybody
			you know my assistant sloan

										  28


				sloan
			hello

				delacroix
			this is cheeba

				cheeba
			nice to meet you

				delacroix
			and this is manray

				manray
			how do you do

				dunwitty
			good  i like the names  very
			theatrical

				delacroix
			were all happy to be here and im
			going to paint a picture for you

				dunwitty
			im wid it

				delacroix
			ive done a lot of soul searching
			and once again you are right  in
			my previous work its been all
			surface superficial  i have never
			really dug deep  not anymore  as
			mark twain fully understood satire
			is the way  race has always been a
			hot button in this countrys
			history and it needs to be pushed
			harder  if we are ever to live
			side by side in peace and harmony
			its about promoting racial healing

				dunwitty
			go on  good so far

				delacroix
			i know youre familiar with minstrel
			shows  they came about at the turn
			of the 19th century  it was a
			variety show in which the talent
			was in blackface  singing dancing
			telling jokes doing skits
			dunwitty i ask you when was the
			last time there was a good variety
			show on the air  carol burnett
			heehaw

										  29


				dunwitty
			word

				delacroix
			so lets take this great form this
			very american tradition of
			entertainment into the 21st century
			into the new millennium

				dunwitty
			the name of the show

				delacroix
			it is called mantan  the new
			millennium minstrel show

				dunwitty
			im lovin it  you know how i know
			because im getting a boner my
			johnson is hard no disrespect my
			sister

dunwitty starts walking around his office pumping his first

				dunwitty contd
			im feelin dis

				delacroix
			it will take a lot of courage and
			backbone on the part of the cns to
			get this on the air  in fact i
			would understand fully if the
			subject matter is deemed too
			risque too controversial

				dunwitty
			dont worry about that thats my
			department  now who do we cast
			we need a star  can whoopi sing or
			dance

				delacroix
			i dont know if whoopi is the way
			to go

				dunwitty
			are these our two stars sitting
			here in front of my nose  which
			one is mantan again

				mantan
			thats me

										  30


				delacroix
			and cheeba is sleep n eat

close on

cheeba  a look of surprise is on his face  complete utter
surprise

				dunwitty
			thats a great handle

				delacroix
			mantan and sleep n eat  two real
			coons  i know were way out there
			but its satire

				dunwitty
			i want you take it there  all the
			way to the edge and back

sloan looks at delacroix with concern

				delacroix
			every week we follow the trials and
			tribulations of two real coons 
			mantan and sleep n eat  the dusky
			duo

				dunwitty
			what are there character traits

				delacroix
			ignorant dullwitted lazy and
			unlucky

				dunwitty
			exactly

				delacroix
			mantan is an uneducated negro who
			always by some stroke of
			unbelievable stupidity makes his
			best laid plans go haywire

				dunwitty
			and sleep n eat is his comical
			sidekick

				delacroix
			yep you guessed it

				dunwitty
			this could be bigger than amos and
			andy

										  31


				delacroix
			protest finally forced amos and
			andy off the air  could stop us
			from ever getting on

				dunwitty
			letem try  i will kill to make
			this happen

delacroix looks at sloan

				delacroix
			negroes would be in an uproar

				dunwitty
			so what  we would just give the
			naacp a donation that would be the
			end of that  no such thing as bad
			publicity  so what  earlier you
			said singing and dancing

				delacroix
			mantan right here is a gifted
			hoofer  he has educated feet

				dunwitty
			who are the other characters

				delacroix
			do we have characters  how about
			honeycutt snowflake rastus
			nigger jim sambo jungle bunny
			and how could we forget aunt jemima

dunwitty is dying with laughter  hes the only one

				dunwitty
			we gonna hit em wid da bomb dickey
			on dis one  whats the setting

				delacroix
			in the projects  like eddie
			murphys the pjs

				dunwitty
			ya first bad move  projects been
			done  thats one of the problems
			now everything movies tv are
			set in the urban jungle da hood
			thats so tired  mantans
			millennium minstrel show should be
			set on a plantation  in alabama
				more

										  32


				dunwitty contd
			and every week these alabama porch
			monkeys will make us cry make us
			laugh make us look at our own
			humanity  make us feel good to be
			alive

				delacroix
			i dont know about that plantation
			angle

				dunwitty
			what are you talkin bout  its
			the move  stay wid me now  were
			movin fast  what does everybody
			else think about this

				sloan
			wed get a lot of mail

she laughs its a fake one at that

				sloan contd
			mr dunwitty there wouldnt be
			another show like it

				cheeba
			ive always wanted to be on
			television

				dunwitty
			i like you  sleep n eat  thats
			funny  mantan how do you feel
			about performing in black face

				mantan
			as long as the hoofing is real
			that i can do my thing i can
			blacken up  let me hit it beats
			and rhythms express myself

				dunwitty
			show me a little somethin somethin

mantan starts to put on his new tap shoes

				dunwitty contd
			delacroix you dug deep deeper
			than deep

mantan is ready

										  33


				mantan
			im gonna give you just a taste
			my tap shoes are brand new  i
			havent trained em yet

he starts to work out

				mantan contd
			rhythms rhythms rhythms  beats
			beats beats  no fred astaire
			here baby  just rawness

dunwitty clears his desk of everything just knocks stuff
flying onto the floor  and mantan taking the cue jumps up
on his desk and really starts hitting it

close on

delacroix as he watches his creation its not a happy face

close on

mantan hes bringing it home  with the final move he
leaps off the desk into the middle of the office and freezes

angle on

the office

				dunwitty
			thatswhatimtalkinbout
			thatswhatimtalkinbout  hes
			off the hizhook

				delacroix
			we think so

				dunwitty
			sleep n eat what do you do

				cheeba
			i play the straight man  i do some
			singing and dancing also  i also
			manage mantan

				dunwitty
			oh you do so

				cheeba
			im the man behind the man behind
			the man

				dunwitty
			you da man

										  34


				cheeba
			no you da man

				dunwitty
			im gonna run upstairs with this
			if cns doesnt want to do this
			somebody else will have da balls to
			pull the trigger  i want to thank
			each and every one of you  this is
			great delacroix  ill get back to
			you later today

ext street  day

cheeba and mantan are walking in midtown manhattan  they
both have a pep in their step money in their pockets and a
roof over their heads

				cheeba
			life is beginning to look up  its
			all good in da neighborhood

				mantan
			you might be right

				cheeba
			why are you smiling so

his smile is a mile wide

				mantan
			im not smiling

				cheeba
			naw not you  it cant be  that
			hottie sloan hopkins

				mantan
			its that bad huh  its all over
			my face

				cheeba
			no shame in ya game  she got ya
			nostrils ya chnoz is wide open
			sloans what we certified ladies
			men call low hanging fruit

				mantan
			certified ladies man huh

				cheeba
			shes also moorish

										  35


				mantan
			whats that

				cheeba
			moorish  ya get a little taste of
			dat booty ya wanna get some more

				mantan
			seconds and thirds too

				cheeba
			sloan is all dat  i try her  im
			a trisexual

				mantan
			youd try anything  i got first
			dibs  you get ya own stuff

				cheeba
			naw just jokin  thats you
			thats you

int delacroixs apartment  night

delacroix sits with manray and cheeba in the living room

				delacroix
			i want you to start using the name
			mantan and not manray if you dont
			mind

				manray
			why

				delacroix
			you have to start getting into your
			character

				cheeba
			at the risk of sounding ignorant

cheeba turns quickly towards manray

				cheeba contd
			dont say a word but who is this
			cat mantan you keep talkin bout

delacroix hits the remote button  the tv and vcr are powered

close on

television  we see mantan moreland in some obscure movie

										  36


				delacroix os
			this is mantan moreland

closer on

television  mantan reacts to seeing a ghost

				delacroix os contd
			he was a clown a buffoon but he
			was funny

angle on

living room

				cheeba
			that aint funny

				manray
			dela i dont know bout this

				delacroix
			gentlemen the show our show will
			be satirical  you know what that
			is dont you  trust me on this one

				cheeba
			we might need some mo money behind
			this

				delacroix
			that can be done

				manray
			mantan

				delacroix
			mantan

int recording studio  night

the maumaus in full effect bob their heads to the funky
track that blasts from the studio monitors

angle on

studio  they pass around joints that look like theyve been
on steroids and 64 ounce jugulars of da bomb malt liquor 
liquid crack the preferred alcoholic beverage of ghetto
negroes  all the members of the maumaus are african
american except one  there is one caucasian member  he
goes by the name 116th black the engineer techwhiz kid
computer geek

										  37


				116th black
			yo big black we needs a name for
			this joint

				big black
			how bout

big black takes a long long drag on a joint then he
quickly empties a 64 oz in one swing without missing a
beat without missing a head nod

				big black contd
			black iz black

the whole group goes crazy with the title of the song

				double black
			thats da bomb

				mo black
			thats gonna give me some
			inspiration

				jo black
			gonna make me get my flow on

				big black
			we should call dis da black album

everyone starts highfiving each other

				smooth black
			yo check it out  we have never
			conformed to none of the white
			mans rules and regulations and
			later for that ole slave owner
			webster  therefore i respectfully
			submit big black that we from now
			on hence forth and whatnot spell
			black blak not black

				hard black
			i feel dat

				116th black
			blak  blak  the darkest of all
			colors the opposite of white  a
			member of an african people  but
			check it out heres where the grey
			people try to get slick with their
			trickery  listen to the full
			connotations  gloomy  depressing
			evil  wicked  angry  sullen
				more

										  38


				116th black contd
			blak out  blak listed  blak ball
			need i say more

				big black
			blak it is

int house  night

a middleaged africanamerican woman is working in the
kitchen  delacroix sits at the kitchen table talking with
her  this is his mom orchid dothan

orchid puts a plate of food in front of her son

				orchid
			you must think im some kind of fool

				delacroix
			it looks delicious

				orchid
			you hear me talkin to you  the
			only time you come up here when
			something is wrong

				delacroix
			cmon mommy dont start with that
			im an ungrateful son stuff

				orchid
			i said no such thing  all i said
			is that something must be wrong

she sits down with him

				orchid contd
			hows the food

				delacroix
			cant beat it with a hammer  well
			since you asked it looks like i
			may have a new show a pilot being
			shot

				orchid
			thats wonderful  isnt that what
			you always wanted a show of your
			own

he talks between mouthfuls

										  39


				delacroix
			it was  it is  but this is a
			different kind of show

				orchid
			if at first its not what you want
			just work that much harder peerless

				delacroix
			mommy please dont call me that

				orchid
			son peerless is your name  now
			you might be one of these hollywood
			types change your name and all
			that but peerless dothan is on your
			birth certificate

				delacroix
			i know whats on my birth
			certificate  you heard from daddy

				orchid
			i guess hes still on the road
			what kind of show is this  are
			they some negroes in it without
			being buffoons

				delacroix
			to answer your question there are
			a lot of negroes in it and what is
			your definition of buffoons

				orchid
			peerless i didnt raise a buffoon
			we have enough of those on
			television already

				delacroix
			please let me know when you hear
			from daddy get a number or
			something

				orchid
			i will  and good luck with your
			show  i hope its a huge success
			youve worked very hard  you
			deserve it

delacroix gets up from his seat and hugs his mother

										  40


int restaurant  night

a celebration is going on as delacroix sloan cheeba and
mantan sit at a table

angle on

table  cheeba and mantan are giddy  sloan looks at
delacroix who is visibly not happy

				sloan
			you okay

				delacroix
			i feel like somebody hit me upside
			da head with a sledgehammer

				cheeba
			dela  whats the matter with you

				mantan
			you aint happy about the green
			light

				sloan
			people show their happiness in a
			lot of different ways

				mantan
			well homeboy looks like hes at a
			funeral

				delacroix
			im happy for all of us  its just
			we have a great responsibility now
			the pressure is on

				mantan
			pressure  dela you dont know
			what the hell real pressure is
			sheeett  this is lightstuff
			now when you scramblin out on the
			street in da january winter and the
			hawk is talkin to you with no
			money and no prospects of money
			anytime soon now that there is
			some pressure

				delacroix
			i didnt mean it to sound like that

										  41


				mantan
			thats the way it came out  let me
			ask you one question  have you
			ever been in want in need your
			entire privileged life

				delacroix
			now im privileged  why  because
			i didnt grow up on food stamps and
			welfare  because i didnt call
			home a cardboard box  no i never
			ever went to bed hungry and im
			proud of it too  whoever told you
			that living in poverty earns you
			somekind of badge of honor flat out
			lied to you

				mantan
			the point im trying to make is
			that this is a blessing  its
			going to be fun doing this show and
			we should all look at it that way

delacroix gets up from the table and leaves

				cheeba
			whats wrong with him

				mantan
			must be the pressure

cheeba and mantan laugh give each other some dap  a highly
attractive puerto rican female walks over to their table
this is jessica grillo

				jessica
			sorry im late

cheeba and mantan are in awe

				sloan
			hey girl  this is my best friend
			jessica grillo  i invited her down
			to celebrate with us

				cheeba
			im cheeba

				mantan
			im mantan

they both rise

										  42


				cheeba
			please have a seat

				mantan
			sloan never told us she had friends
			like you

				cheeba
			in fact we never knew she had any
			friends period

				sloan
			later for you

				jessica
			she has a lot of friends

				cheeba
			male

				jessica
			yes

				mantan
			a lot

				sloan
			enough

sloan and jessica laugh at the expense of these guys

				jessica
			i propose a toast

she grabs an empty glass and pours herself some champagne

				jessica contd
			to the success of your show  good
			luck

everyone raises their glasses  clink

				sloan
			excuse me

sloan gets up from the table and takes after delacroix

angle on

steps sloan catches up with delacroix at the rest room area

				sloan contd
			wait here

										  43


she goes to the ladies cubicle

close on

delacroix  he leans against the wall

angle on

bathroom door  sloan comes out grabs him inside

int ladies room  night

sloan locks the door

				sloan
			what is your problem

				delacroix
			my problem is mantan the new
			millenium minstrel show

				sloan
			why did you even come up with that
			shit if you didnt want it made

				delacroix
			it was the principle  dunwitty had
			to be enlightened  i was making a
			point  i take pride in my work
			plus i already told you i wasnt
			gonna walk away from my money

				sloan
			fuck da money  why do through all
			this effort  why  are you looking
			for love from dunwitty  for
			respect  dunwitty and his likes
			dont give a goddamn about you  so
			now what are you gonna do

someone begins to pound on the bathroom door

				womans voice os
			will you please let me in  i have
			to use the toilet

				sloan
			youre gonna have to hold it in
			because were not finished yet

she returns her attention to delacroix

				sloan contd
			quit then

										  44


				delacroix
			even if money wasnt an issue
			dunwitty will still go ahead
			without me and that could be more
			dangerous

				sloan
			whats the chances of mantan being
			picked up

				delacroix
			i wouldnt bet against it  my
			negroidal ass is stuck between the
			proverbial rock and a hard place

				sloan
			like i said all this for some
			twisted distorted sense of
			principal  dunwitty he just
			tolerates your negroidal ass he
			doesnt respect it

the banging starts again

				managers voice os
			please open this bathroom door
			immediately  you are being very
			inconsiderate

sloan unlocks the door and they exit

angle on

ladies bathroom  sloan and delacroix file past the strange
looks of the manager and five women waiting to use the
bathroom as they rush in

int dunwittys office  morning

				delacroix
			i strongly feel that a negro should
			direct this  this kind of satire
			is a high wire act in a gale storm
			one misstep and were doing amos
			and andy  only a negro will have
			the sensitivity and cultural
			awareness to navigate this dangerous
			terrain

				dunwitty
			to hire someone solely on their
			ethnicity gender or religion is
			not right  its unamerican  i
			will hire someone who is most
			qualified for this particular job

										  45


				delacroix
			i was hoping to perhaps direct some
			episodes myself if not the pilot
			soon after

				dunwitty
			i want a hot young white director
			maybe the kid that pheenom who
			just did that hot new sexy madonna
			video

				delacroix
			youre telling me some white boy is
			gonna direct this pilot

				dunwitty
			i just want you to meet him  keep
			an open mind

				delacroix
			besides what does he know about
			negroes

				dunwitty
			probably nuthin but thats why
			its such a sexy way to go
			sometimes an outsider has a fresh
			new outlook a different unique
			perspective  a black director
			yknow what hes gonna do given the
			subject matter  with this kid the
			possibilities are endless

				delacroix
			what are his qualifications besides
			being a white male and directing a
			hot new sexy freaky madonna video

				dunwitty
			if spielburg can direct the color
			purple and amistad our whiz kid
			can direct the mantan pilot

				delacroix
			thats exactly my point  has he
			even directed actors before in
			anything

				dunwitty
			no  just meet the guy  thats
			all im asking  look ill even
			let you choose your own musical
			director  you can have that

										  46


				delacroix
			in the immortal words of derrick
			coleman whooopdeedamndoo

				dunwitty
			derrick coleman he possessed all
			the talent in the world coulda
			shoulda been a great ballplayer
			but alas dc didnt want it bad
			enough  delacroix do you want it
			bad enough to kill for it  do you
			want it that much

delacroix stares at dunwitty

int conference room  next day

delacroix followed by sloan enters the room full of writers

close on

delacroix

he surveys the room

pov  delacroix

all of the writers are caucasian  male and female  every
single last one

angle on

conference room  delacroix and sloan sit down at the head
of the long oval table

				delacroix
			good morning for those of you who
			dont know me im pierre delacroix
			im running things and this here is
			my assistant sloan hopkins

				sloan
			hello

				delacroix
			ive never worked with any of you
			and youve never worked with me so
			well be starting from scratch
			im a fair person a straight
			shooter and i dont hold my tongue
			everybody up in here should know i
			had nothing to do with you being
			hired
				more

										  47


				delacroix contd
			i would have preferred at least one
			other negro writer  any questions
			comments

mona raises her hand

				delacroix contd
			yes your name

				mona
			he im mona

				delacroix
			hi mona

				mona
			i perfectly understand where youre
			coming from  as a minority i can
			relate to your struggle also  but
			i think you should give us all a
			chance  we want this pilot to be
			successful just as much as you
			please dont be so quick to judge
			us based only on our whiteness

				delacroix
			oh is that what im doing

beth jumps in

				beth
			i think because of our background
			we can bring a unique perspective
			to mantan

seth pipes in also

				seth
			a fresh pair of eyes  a new look
			insight new angle that hasnt been
			seen before

				delacroix
			ive heard this somewhere before

david raises his hand

										  48


				david
			my name is david  i do think it
			would be better to have some
			africanamerican writers but for
			whatever reason they are not here
			i dont know if they couldnt find
			any people with experience they
			wouldnt work for the pay or
			refused to work for the show  i
			dont know and nobody in this room
			probably knows either  im looking
			at this as a unique opportunity
			we all should  im a damn good
			writer and im ready to go to work

everyone in the room applauds  sloan looks at delacroix

freeze frame

				delacroix vo
			this thing was rigged the deck was
			stacked the fix was in  could don
			king be near  good thing sloan had
			my back  shes my rock  this was
			going to be a whole lot of work

unfreeze frame

				delacroix contd
			david i appreciate your comments
			anybody got an ideas  everybody
			just talk out loud

				mona
			ive always liked the format of
			rowan and martins laughin

				anna
			that could be cool

				kirk
			what about something like the
			jeffersons  i grew up in idaho so
			thats how i got my understanding
			of black people  through sherman
			helmsley louissee

				david
			good times was better  kid dyno
			mite

										  49


				aaron
			you pole are going to far back for
			me  i think we have to go after a
			hipper feel  like the stuff eddie
			murphy used to do on saturday
			night live

				peter
			or martin  you go girl

				jeff
			what about the  black exploitation
			films  no one has ever tried
			making that work on tv

				david
			and for reason  have you ever seen
			scream blacula scream

				mona
			i think and delacroix will agree
			with me the politics of this show
			have to be right  we should always
			be laughing with our characters
			not at them

close on

delacroix as the writers continue to ramble on he lets
them jerk off

				delacroix vo
			the mission was accomplished  all
			of these people left the room
			thinking they would have real input
			i was writing this pilot alone
			myself me

ext street  day

a long line reaches down the block and around the corner
its a cattle call open auditions for mantan

				delacroix vo
			now came the fun part finding the
			talented performers to cast in the
			show

we dolly past the hundreds and hundreds of unemployed
african american actors many of them dressed in various
costumes

										  50


				delacroix vo contd
			everybody and their mother was
			trying to get in trying to be seen
			trying to get their piece of the
			rock

int rehearsal space  day

delacroix sits in the first row with sloan ruth an african
american casting director  levi the musical director also
black is on the stage at the piano

audition montage

we see singers magicians dancers acrobats comedians
rappers  some good most are terrible  many come out on
stage dressed like mammies stepin fetchit slaves pimps
hos hustlers and basketball players  it is a cavalcade
of all the stereotypical roles one has seen

angle on

space  lulu a spoken word artist goes her rendition of
way down on the swanee river

				delacroix vo
			this was amazing  who had told
			these negroes that this was what we
			were looking for  the same old
			image it damn for sure wasnt me

close on

lulu

				delacroix vo contd
			were people this desperate to get
			work

close on

delacroix  he interrupts lulu

				delacroix contd
			thanks ms lulu

				lulu
			but i had several more poems

				delacroix
			thats good  weve seen enough
			well get back to you

lulu scurries off stage

										  51


				ruth os
			next

the maumaus run onto the stage yelling and screaming

they are all fired up in fact several fire their 9mms into
the ceiling

angle  two shot

delacroix and sloan

				sloan
			this is the group i was telling you
			about

				delacroix
			which one is your brother

				sloan
			the big one

close on

ruth

				ruth
			lets get started here

angle on

stage

big black preens around on the stage

				big black
			the maumaus are up in dis place
			thats right the maumaus

				delacroix os
			whats your name

				big black
			my righteous name is big black

				delacroix os
			and what are the maumaus going to
			do for us today

				big black
			we gonna drop some knowledge
			wisdom and understanding  the mau
			maus we be scientists  we drop
			science

										  52


close on

sloan whos trying to disappear  if she sits any lower
shell be under her seat

on delacroix

				delacroix
			were ready when you are

on stage

				big black
			microphone check  one  two  one
			two  one  two  hold up  i gots
			to give my peeps some props
			brothers introduce yourself

				double black
			yo im double black

				black black
			check it black black

				smooth black
			im smooth black the lover in dis
			piece

				hard black
			hard black

				mo black
			hes jo black

				jo black
			and hes mo black

				116th black
			im last but not least you can
			call me 116th black

on delacroix

				delacroix
			good  were really blackedoops
			backed up so shall we begin

on stage

				big black
			microphone check  one  two  one
			two  yo the name of this joint is
			blak iz blak  hit it

										  53


the booming track starts and the maumaus do their thing
bouncing all over the stage  the lyrics about everything
that is blak

on delacroix

a look of disbelief is on his face

				delacroix vo
			needless to say the maumaus did
			not fit into our plans

on sloan

shes in shock horrified

				delacroix vo contd
			as i told sloan theres a black
			sheep in every family

backstage  later that day

delacroix is screaming at the top of his lungs

				delacroix contd
			finland  this is a travesty  a
			debacle  a mockery

int lobby

dunwitty approaches delacroix in the lobby of the rehearsal
space  he is with jukka a young very young blonde kid

				dunwitty
			delacroix  this is the director i
			was telling you about  jukka laks

				jukka
			so nice to meet you

				delacroix
			nice to meet you  if you dont
			mind me asking you  how old are you

				jukka
			i just turned twenty

				dunwitty
			im gonna leave you two creative
			geniuses alone

				delacroix
			dunwitty dont leave

										  54


dunwitty is out

				delacroix contd
			where are you from

				jukka
			helsinki which is the capital of
			finland

				delacroix
			finland

				jukka
			you know finlandia vodka  yes

				delacroix
			yes i know  jukka have you ever
			seen a negro person before  even
			had a real conversation with a real
			negro before

				jukka
			whats a negro

int backstage

delacroix continues to rant and rave  sloan is unsuccessful
in attempting to make him be quiet

				delacroix
			a fiasco  a disaster  a boondoggle
			an abomination

int lobby

				delacroix
			did you just ask me whats a negro
			im a negro

				jukka
			ahhh  i never heard of that term
			before  i thought you were black
			of africanamerican  no

				delacroix
			well before there was black or
			african american there were
			negroes  im a negro

				jukka
			thank you for correcting my
			ignorance  im looking forward to
			working side by side with you  i
			feel we make a good team

										  55


				delacroix
			how did you get this gig

				jukka
			my visual style is very erotic
			sexy how do you say  hot

				delacroix
			this is a tv show not a music video

				jukka
			then will you teach me what i need
			to know  maybe we learn from each
			other if thats possible no

int backstage  moments later

				delacroix
			this is a travesty  a debacle

				sloan
			youve said that already

				delacroix
			im gonna slit my wrists  cut my
			throat  for the love of joseph

int delacroixs office  new day

hes sitting behind his desk reading new pink revisions
of the mantan pilot  he screams

				delacroix
			for the love of joseph and mary

delacroix bolts out from his office

int dunwittys office  day

delacroix charges in as dunwitty and jukka go over the same
pink revisions

				delacroix
			i will not be held responsible for
			these revisions  these changes are
			not the way i want to go  this is
			an outrage  this is a sham  a
			violation

				dunwitty
			calm down please

				jukka
			in finland when we get upset

										  56


				delacroix
			i dont give a good goddamn about
			finland norway sweden or wherever
			ya blond ass came from

				dunwitty
			we just punched it up a bit  made
			it funnier

				delacroix
			funnier to who and at whos expense
			dunwitty when negroes start to run
			amok the boycotts when the
			demostrations commence im giving
			them your home address  lets see
			how you like it when they picket
			your lawn in greenwich connecticut

				dunwitty
			i seriously doubt that will ever
			happen  didnt i tell you i know
			your people better than you do
			but if by some miracle youre
			correct im gonna invite them
			inside my house and well have a
			sit down discuss it like civil
			human beings

int studio  night

much activity is going on  people are moving to and fro
we follow delacroix and sloan

ext mantans dressing room  continuous

delacroix knocks and they enter

int mantans dressing room

mantan sits in front of his mirror

				delacroix
			just want to say good luck

				sloan
			break a leg

she gives mantan a kiss on his cheek

				delacroix
			wait a minute  hold up

they all laugh

										  57


				delacroix contd
			can i kiss you too

				mantan
			naw  ill take the zero

				delacroix
			you feel good not nervous

				mantan
			i feel fine

				delacroix
			not nervous  relaxed

				mantan
			sloan will you take your boss out
			of here so i can get ready

ext sleep n eats dressing room  night

sloan and delacroix enter the dressing room

int sleep n eats dressing room

				sleep n eat
			hows the audience

				delacroix
			fired up

				sloan
			how you feelin

				sleep n eat
			good  im not sure about this
			material

				delacroix
			the material is fine

sloan cuts a look at this liar

				sleep n eat
			you really think so

				delacroix
			were trying to do something new
			here some groundbreaking stuff

				sleep n eat
			its the bone breaking stuff im
			worried about

										  58


				sloan
			everythings gonna be alright  you
			and mantan will be huge stars after
			tonight

				sleep n eat
			you really think so

				delacroix
			your life will never be the same

				sloan
			lets leave the man in peace so he
			can get ready

int backstage

				sloan
			we both lied to him

				delacroix
			what do you want me to say

				sloan
			just dont lie to me

int stage  night

honeycutt a rotund elder black man who is one of cast
members is warming the audience up

on audience

its very young and diverse  they are laughing at the comic
stylings of honeycutt

int control booth  night

delacroix and sloan take their seats

				delacroix
			good luck jukka  do a good show

				jukka
			thank you very much  i always try
			my best

int mantans dressing room

mantan is slowly getting dressed  he puts on an old
tattered tails tuxedo

										  59


int sleep n eats dressing room

sleep n eat is also getting dressed  he wears a worn
pullman porter uniform with red hat to match

int control room  night

dunwitty with his black wife in hand verna moves toward
delacroix and sloan

				dunwitty
			i want you to meet my lovely wife
			verna  honey this is pierre
			delacroix and sloan hopkins

				verna
			nice to meet you

				delacroix
			same here

				sloan
			the pleasure is mine

				verna
			my husband has been raving about
			the awesome work youve done  how
			did you ever think of something
			like this  its absolutely
			brilliant  pure genius

				delacroix
			i guess it was divine inspiration

				verna
			hope to see you both after the
			taping  congrats in advance

on control booth

verna and dunwitty go to the front of the control booth

two shot

delacroix and sloan

				sloan
			divine inspiration

she laughs

				delacroix
			i was trying to be nice

										  60


				sloan
			i want to apologize about my
			brother and the maumaus  i
			should not have imposed them on you

				delacroix
			cmon  you were only doing what
			family is supposed to be doing for
			family  you gave your brother a
			shot  thats all anybody can ask
			for an opportunity a chance a
			shot  he got his

int mantans dressing room

mantan is in front of his dressing room mirror

on mirror

mantan looks stares at his reflection

int sleep n eats dressing room

sleep n eat is staring at himself also

int mantans dressing room

close on mantan

				sloan vo
			we should blacken up like they did
			it back in the day  keep the
			ritual the same

mantan puts some corks in a dish

				sloan vo contd
			pour some alcohol on the corks
			then light it

int sleep n eats dressing room

sleep n eat strikes a match to his corks in a dish

close on sleep n eat

he watches the cork burn

				sloan vo
			let them burnt to a crisp and when
			burnt out mash them to a powder

										  61


int mantans dressing room

mantan is mashing the corks

				sloan vo
			add water mix to a thick paste

int sleep n eats dressing room

sleep n eat is mixing it all together

				sloan vo
			and voila  you have your blackface

int stage  night

the audience which has become restless starts a rhythmic
clap

				sloan vo
			please put cocoa butter on your
			face and hands

int mantans dressing room

on mantans hands

				sloan vo
			to protect your skin

he applies cocoa butter to his hands

int sleep n eats dressing room

on sleep n eats face

he rubs cocoa butter all over his face

int stage  night

close on hands

audience hands are clapping faster

on feet

theyre stomping

int mantans dressing room

on mirror

mantan blacks up his face

										  62


we hear the pounding of the feet stomping and the hands
clapping

int sleep n eats dressing room

on mirror

sleep n eat blacks up also

				sloan vo
			the final detail

int mantans dressing room

on lips

				sloan vo
			are the lips

mantan is applying lipstick

int sleep n eats dressing room

on lips

sleep n eat is puckering his lips as he too puts on the
lipstick

				sloan vo
			the redder the lipstick the better
			i suggest firetruck red

on mirror

for the first time we see sleep n eat in full black face

				sleep n eat
			show

int mantans dressing room

on mirror

mantan in full black face

				mantan
			time

int stage  night

the audience is in an uproar when the lights go down  they
applaud and they quiet as the curtain goes up on a bucolic
setting  it is a combination of watermelon patch and cotton
field

										  63


on stage

first sleep n eat then mantan shuffles onto the stage

				mantan
			this is my best friend sleep n eat

				sleep n eat
			and this is my very best friend
			mantan

				both
			were two real coons

the audience lets out nervous laughter  they dont know
what to think

				mantan
			we both left the hustle and bustle
			of uptown harlem

				sleep n eat
			the big apple new york new york

				mantan
			to come back to our roots

				sleep n eat
			our alabamy home  now were
			getting countrified  we is bamas

				mantan
			no mo city slickers  ahh cant
			you smell the sweet aroma of the
			ripe watermelons and high cotton

				sleep n eat
			tell em what you mean mistuh mantan

				mantan
			well thank you mistuh sleep n eat

				sleep n eat
			give or cousins some of dem educated
			feets

mantan begins to do a slow steady step

				sleep n eat contd
			cousins first second third and
			distant lets have mantan take us
			all the way back to a much more
			simpler time  a time wen men were
			men women were women and neggras
			knew their place

										  64


the audience is aghast  mantan has picked up the pace
hes tapping fast and furious

				mantan
			cousins i want all of you to go to
			your windows  go to your windows
			and yell  yell im tired of the
			drugs the crack babies born out of
			wedlock to crackhead aids infested
			parents  im tired of the inflated
			welfare rolls while good wholesome
			americans bring less and less of
			their paycheck home every two weeks
			im tired youre tired were all
			tired of these socalled bible
			thumping god fearing whore mongling
			professional athletes  arent you
			tired of these basketballdunking
			footballrunning hophip rapping
			ebonicspeaking sex offenders who
			got ten kids from ten different
			hos  i know i am and so is sleep
			n eat

				sleep n eat
			you tellin the truth

				mantan
			go to your windows and yell out
			scream with all the life you can
			muster up inside your assaulted
			bruised and battered bodies  im
			sick and tired of niggers and im
			not gonna take it anymore

mantan stops dancing and collapses

on audience

theyre stunned  they cant believe what theyve heard
what theyve seen  what theyve been witness to

on young white couple

they look at the black people in the audience

on young hiphop black male

he starts to clap slowly

on audience

slowly more black people begin to applaud  slowly it sweeps
up into the black people

										  65


the white audience of course has been waiting to see how
their black brothers and sisters would react  now feeling
comfortable and safe they too being to join the applause

on audience

the applause changes into laughter  it is not nervous
laughter we hear but straight out riotous laughter

on black and white faces

the laughter is contagious

on stage

mantan starts to move hes coming back from the dead  he
slowly gets up from his prostate position as he hears

a wayback alabama jig played by the house band the porch
monkeys led by musical director levi  mantan is joined on
stage by the other hoofers in the show jungle bunny
snowflake sambo aunt jemima rastus nigger jim plus
sleep n eat  each take turn as it evolves into an elaborate
dance number  the hoofers and the band are also in black
face

on audience

they are rolling down the aisles

int control room  night

on delacroix

delacroix looks like he has seen a ghost

closer

he buries his face in his hands

int delacroixs apartment  next night

delacroix is in the same position as the scene before  face
buried in his hands

on phone

it rings and he picks it up

				delacroix
			hello

										  66


ext streets  night

dunwitty drives his mercedes benz cl 600 coupe

				dunwitty
			yo dela i just got the news from
			the cns brass  they saw some clips
			from the pilot and theyre rushing
			it onto the air  yo were a
			midseason replacement ordered 12
			shows  were on in 3 weeks  didya
			hear what i just said yo

on dunwitty

				dunwitty contd
			they didnt even view a rough cut
			just some scenes we quickly cut
			together

on delacroix

				delacroix
			this has to be a big mistake

				dunwitty os
			the big mistake was my not believing
			in your genius earlier  from the
			gitgo from jump street

				delacroix
			hold on a sec i got a call

he clicks over

				delacroix contd
			hello mommy let me get rid of
			this other call

int benz  continuous

				delacroix os
			i gots to go its my moms

				dunwitty
			i want to meet her one day please
			tell her the great news  im out
			like vanilla ice

int orchids house  night

she is on the phone with her son

										  67


				orchid
			peerless your father called

int delacroixs apartment

				delacroix
			ill be right over

int street  night

its a warm summer night

				mantan
			so whats up with you

				sloan
			what do you want to know

				mantan
			the good stuff

				sloan
			im an asthmatic  been one all my
			life  cant go anywhere without an
			inhaler

				mantan
			what else

				sloan
			are you trying to rap to me

int orchids house

delacroix sits at the kitchen table

				orchid
			he wants you to come and see him

				delacroix
			he said that

				orchid
			yes he did

				delacroix
			where is he

				orchid
			hes performing at some place
			outside of richmond virginia

				delacroix
			i cant go all the way down south

										  68


				orchid
			richmond is not all the way down
			south

				delacroix
			i dont even know why youre still
			concerned over him  daddys not
			with you

				orchid
			regardless he still is your father

				delacroix
			its gonna be hard for me to get
			away with the show taking off

				orchid
			even more reason to see him  hell
			be overjoyed with your success

				delacroix
			cmon mommy  daddy hasnt been
			impressed with anything ive ever
			done  from winning my fifth grade
			spelling bee to the present

				orchid
			peerless last time go see your
			father

ext park  night

mantan and sloan are sitting on a park bench nothing is
being said  he sits up and starts to do a dance for her
to her

on bench

mantan is doing that mating tap dance

				sloan
			are you trying to seduce me

he puts his index finger over his mouth  quiet

				sloan contd
			you think thats gonna work huh

he quickly jumps up on the bench does some intricate steps
then pulls sloan up from her sitting position

on mantan and sloan

they kiss

										  69


ext i95 south  morning

delacroix is driving down south

int car  continuous

delacroix adjusts the mirror so he can see himself  he
speaks to us through the mirror

				delacroix
			i figured this was a good time to
			get away  just jump in my ride and
			go  i always did my best thinking
			when i was driving alone  i needed
			to think out clearly what i was
			going to do with this mantan  the
			new millennium minstrel show

ext i95 south

delacroix is driving on his way to ole virginny

ext mamas sugar shak  night

delacroix pulls up in the parking lot of a rinkykink
funky greasy barclubbarbq joint

close on neon sign

mamas sugar shak  most the letters do not light up
underneath it 2nite  junebug

int mamas sugar shak

its loud as hell as delacroix enters this smoky dark
establishment

pov delacroix

this must be a big night in here because the patrons are
dressed to the nines  whats in style down here is a lot
different from whats happening en nueva york  many of the
men are dressed like pimps from 70s blaxploitation film
the ladies like hootchie mamas from luke video

on sugar shak

delacroix works himself through the crowded bardisco into
another small room

on comedy room

he walks into a small space where his father junebug is on
the stage

										  70


on junebug

he is a goodlooking man the only speckle of gray in his
hair betrays his age  as he walks around the small stage
doing his comedy stylings he keeps a drink in one hand and
sips it often

on comedy room

delacroix sits in the back so his father cant see him

on delacroix

he looks around

pov delacroix

its dead in here  the room is nearly empty

on table

a couple gets loud arguing over something

on junebug

				junebug
			cuse me  please  can you please
			show me some respect  im up here
			trying to make a living

				man
			mind yo business

				junebug
			dont make me have to come over
			there and whoop you upside ya head

the sparse audience laughs

				junebug contd
			just messin with ya  but please
			if you and your lady need to
			discuss something take it outside
			thank you

he continues on with his show

on table

delacroix walks over to the fighting couple

										  71


				delacroix
			brother man thats my father up
			there and i drove a long way to see
			him perform  please take this
			fifty go buy you and the young
			lady some drinks in the club

the guy looks him up and down

				man
			thats yo daddy

delacroix nods

				man contd
			dont need yo money for drinks
			besides shes drunk already
			cmon lets go

the guy grabs his friend by the wrist and drags her kicking
and screaming out the room

close on junebug

				junebug
			dont bring your woman out if you
			cant keep her in deep check  if
			my woman ever did something crazy
			like that id put my size 12 dead
			up in her ass

this gets the biggest laugh of the night

ext dressing room  night

delacroix knocks

				junebug os
			what do you want

				delacroix
			i want to speak with you

				junebug os
			go away unless you got my money

				delacroix
			its me peerless

int dressing room

he enters into a closet its a makeshift dressing room  a
younger lady much younger than junebug  dot  stands
behind him as she massages his neck

										  72


junebug gets up from his chair rushes to his son and they
embrace

				junebug
			son  good to seeya  good to seeya

				delacroix
			its been a long time

				junebug
			pull up a chair  oh excuse me
			this is my lady dot

				delacroix
			pleased to meet you

				dot
			glad to meet you too  you are all
			your father talks about

				delacroix
			is that so

				junebug
			honey pour me and my son a drink

they both sit down as drinks are poured

				dot
			ill leave you two alone

she kisses junebug on the forehead before leaving

				junebug
			good woman  i trained her right

				delacroix
			daddy shes younger than me

				junebug
			my game is still strong  no viagra
			for me dont need no chemicals
			just my tonic

he holds up his drink and kills it in one gulp

				junebug contd
			purely for medicinal purposes

				delacroix
			i thought you had promised mommy
			you stopped

										  73


				junebug
			i did  im not an alcoholic  i
			just like to drink

				delacroix
			how did you end up here

				junebug
			how did i end up at the third rate
			chittlin circuit greasy hole in
			the wall in west hell virginny
			is that what youre asking ya daddy

delacroix takes a sip of his drink

				delacroix
			thats what im askin

				junebug
			because i had too much pride  too
			much integrity  i wouldnt lick
			nobodys butt  some material i
			refused to do

				delacroix
			daddy it cant be just because of
			that  there had to be other factors

junebug pours himself another stiff one

				junebug
			thats the only reason period
			they only want one certain kind of
			black comic

				delacroix
			another one of your conspiracies to
			hold ya career back

				junebug
			all i know is what happened to me
			all that other mess i just file
			into the lifes too short category

he downs another one  junebug drinks like a fish

				junebug contd
			enough about me whats happening
			with you

				delacroix
			the same old same old  trying to
			get my stuff through

										  74


				junebug
			dem white boys giving you a hard
			time

				delacroix
			nuthin i cant handle

				junebug
			the truth is never let them seeya
			sweat  you do that thats half
			the battle

				delacroix
			where do you go from here

				junebug
			three nights charleston south
			carolina

				delacroix
			i didnt mean that in life

				junebug
			in life  ima keep on living
			having a good drink got me a good
			young woman make a couple of
			dollars and make people laugh
			havent i always tol you all
			niggas are entertainers  the
			question is what are you gonna do
			peerless

int hotel hallway  night

delacroix and dot are on either side of junebug as they hold
him up

on door

delacroix struggles to put the key in the door

int hotel room

the door is kicked open as the trio comes in  junebug is
drunk as a skunk

				junebug
			im not an alcoholic  i just like
			to drink

				dot
			we know that baby

										  75


				delacroix
			lets get him over to the bed

				junebug
			baby you treat me so good
			peerless youre a good son i love
			you  you never gave me no trouble

they lay him down on the bed

				delacroix
			i love you too daddy

				junebug
			always keep em laughing

dot takes off his shoes  hes out like a light  gone

				delacroix
			how long has my father been like
			this

				dot
			not that often  he was excited to
			see you

				delacroix
			so he drank himself into a stuper

				dot
			the drinking is for the pain  it
			doesnt kill it just dulls it

				delacroix
			so whats up with you

				dot
			i was a hostess at this club your
			daddy was performing and i had
			never laughed so hard in my life
			he asked me to come with him  i
			quit my job and weve been together
			ever since

delacroix pulls out his billfold and gives dot five crisp
new model hundred dollar bills

				delacroix
			dont tell him its from me or he
			wont take it

				dot
			your father is proud of you

										  76


				delacroix
			he never showed it

				dot
			he did the best way he knew how
			junebug is stubborn just like you

delacroix kisses his sleeping father of the forehead

				dot contd
			ill take care of him

ext i95 north  night

delacroix is driving back home  up north

int car  continuous

				delacroix vo
			my daddy  im not mad at him  not
			at all  junebug was the reason i
			got into this business in the first
			place

closer

				delacroix vo contd
			and i thank him for that  however
			it did me no good seeing him in
			that state  daddy was a broken man
			he had been a strong man with
			conviction integrity principles
			and look where it had gotten him
			i had to ask myself did i want to
			end up where he was

overhead rear view mirror

delacroix adjusts the mirror so he can see himself and
speak to us

				delacroix contd
			that was the last time i ever saw
			my father

ext i95 north

delacroixs car flies past us

int mantans dressing room  night

on mirror

mantan starts to black up

										  77


int sleep n eats dressing room

sleep n eat also begins to black up

int stage  night

honeycutt stands in front of the festive young mixed
audience

				honeycutt
			everybody say ho

				audience
			ho

				honeycutt
			thatswhatimtalkinbout
			thatswhatimtalkinbout  i want
			to be the first to welcome you to
			the second taping of mantan  the
			new millennium minstrel show

audience applauds

				honeycutt contd
			my name is honeycutt and i want to
			try something different  can you
			do this for me

on audience

				audience
			yeah

back on honeycutt

				honeycutt
			im gonna start a chant and i want
			yall to follow me  lets make our
			own 2 real coons know youre ready
			to start the show

closer

				honeycutt contd
			lets go niggers  then clap five
			times like this

honeycutt claps the cadence

										  78


				honeycutt contd
			cmon  its easy  its the same
			thing yall do out at the yankee
			game no different cept we changing
			one word  everybody go it

on audience

				audience
			yeah

closer on honeycutt

				honeycutt
			alright  here we go  lets go
			niggers  lets go niggers

close on audience

				audience
			lets go niggers

int mantans dressing room

on mirror

mantan is finishing the black

				audience os
			lets go niggers

int sleep n eats dressing room

sleep n eat is finishing his black

				audience os
			lets go niggers

int stage  continuous

				honeycutt
			louder  they cant hear you

close on young black woman

				young black woman
			lets go niggers

close on young white male

				young white male
			lets go niggers

										  79


int mantans dressing room

mantan is applying his firetruck red lipstick

				audience os
			lets go niggers

int sleep n eats dressing room

sleep n eats also applying lipstick

				audience os
			lets go niggers

int stage  continuous

their chant is deafening  the audiences hyped

				honeycutt
			you sound so good to me  ladies
			and gentlemen boys and girls
			without further adieu lets
			welcome youknowwhoimtalkinabout
			your two favorite coons da dusky
			duo our stars mantan and sleep n
			eat

the audience goes crazy as the curtain goes up and the house
band kicks in with the mantan theme

on stage

the setting is a chicken coop live roosters and chickens
move freely about mantan and sleep n eat  they start right
into their routine at a furious pace

				mantan
			yknow my lady lucindy

				sleep n eat
			the one with da big

				mantan
			not her the one with the little

				sleep n eat
			oh her

				mantan
			tomorrow is her birthday and i want
			to get her something really nice
			like a

										  80


				sleep n eat
			no not that  how bout

				mantan
			she hates dem

				sleep n eat
			too bad  how bout a dress

				mantan
			sleep n eat one of dem slinky
			sexy little foxy

				sleep n eat
			mantan way too short too tight
			get her one of dose

				mantan
			to big  the inbetween one not
			too tight not too lose

				sleep n eat
			thatll work  i just bought one
			for myself

mantan cocks his limp wrist  the audience roars

				sleep n eat contd
			not for me my woolly headed cotton
			pickin friend for

				mantan
			i thought you got rid of

				sleep n eat
			that was vicki her best friend
			dat dress will cast ya round

				mantan
			dats too much money  i cant
			ford it  i needs me a dress that
			cost no mo than

				sleep n eat
			aconite get it dat cheap

				mantan
			ill buy her a less expensive
			dress so i can have some money
			left over to take her out to dinner

				sleep n eat
			we should go out on a double date

										  81


				mantan
			i heard ya lady is wild

				sleep n eat
			no  thats her second cousin
			whos married to lil bit

				mantan
			oh because on our first date she
			let me

				sleep n eat
			no she didnt

				mantan
			yes she did

				sleep n eat
			i heard different thought that
			was

				mantan
			not that time

				sleep n eat
			so when are you comin to pick us up

				mantan
			around

				sleep n eat
			too early

				mantan
			then what about

				sleep n eat
			too late maybe around

				mantan
			perfect

				sleep n eat
			thats what i like about you and me
			we git along

				mantan
			like macaroni and cheese

				sleep n eat
			like grits and butter

				mantan
			like fried and chicken

										  82


				sleep n eat
			like sleep and eat

offscreen we hear the voice of massa charlie hes the
overseer of this plantation

				massa charlie os
			who goes in there

				sleep n eat
			wed better hide

				mantan
			its dat mean evil overseer massa
			charlie

they hide behind some boxes

				massa charlie
			i say who goes in there

				both
			theres nobody in here cept us
			chickens

massa charlie enters the chicken coops with a shotgun
blazing  sleep n eat and mantan do a jig as they try to
escape the buckshot

on audience

theyre rolling down the aisles in hysterics

int control booth

everyone in the booth is laughing uncontrollably  except
delacroix  even sloan is dying

				delacroix
			whos side are you on

				sloan
			im sorry i cant help it  its
			too funny

delacroix starts to crack a smile  he is definitely trying
to hold it in

int delacroixs apartment  night

he sits in front of the television which is off

										  83


				delacroix vo
			it was the day of reckoning  after
			a massive advertising and publicity
			campaign

closer

delacroix stares at the blank screen

				delacroix vo contd
			the public would finally get a
			chance to view mantan  i was
			feelin a little bit like dr
			frankenstein

int sloans studio apartment  night

sloan jessica mantan and cheeba are gathered around the
television in the small studio apartment jabbering away

				delacroix vo
			what would their reaction be  i
			hadnt the foggiest

				sloan
			everybody shut up

on tv screen

we see the opening of mantan  the new millennium minstrel
show  it is in claymation  mantan and sleep n eat are
doing a jig  their noses and lips are done in a grotesque
characterization big wide begroidal noses and juicy red
saucer soup cooling lips

				honeycutt vo
			calling all my cousins youre
			about to take a trip down to hang
			em high plantation home of your
			two favorite coons mantan and
			sleep n eat

on sloan jessica mantan and cheeba

mantan isnt happy

				mantan
			why they gotta make my nose so big

				cheeba
			look at my lips

				jessica
			i think it looks cute

										  84


on sloan

she cant believe her eyes

				honeycutt vo
			mantan  the new millennium minstrel
			show is proudly sponsored by

on tv screen

da bomb product shot and logo

				honeycutt vo contd
			da bomb  well take you there
			and

closer on tv screen

timmi hillnigger product shot and logo

				honeycutt vo contd
			timmi hillnigger  keep it
			really real

on honeycutt

				honeycutt contd
			we will be right back with the
			start of our show but first a
			word from our proud sponsors

cut to commercial 1

ext street corner  any ghetto usa  day

the track is booming  the fire hydrant is open on this
sizzling day and practically butt naked playaz and hoes
dance in the water  each one is guzzling from 64 ounce
jugulars of da bomb which are in the shape of a bomb

on honeycutt and crowd

hes in the spot hes the spokesperson

				honeycutt
			da bomb  yo  its 125 pure
			pleasure malt liquor

				hoochie 1
			its da bomb baby

				playa 1
			its da bomb baby

										  85


on crowd

nothing but butts and breasts gyrating

				honeycutt vo
			clinical testing has found that
			viagra doesnt work on black
			johnsons  thats why our
			scientists developed da bomb for
			you  it makes you feel like a man
			and it makes dem bitches feel like
			natural women  i mean hos

				playa 2
			it makes my nature rise

				hoochie 2
			i want to get funked up

				honeycutt
			da bomb  125 pure pleasure malt
			liquor

honeycutt takes a big swallow from his 64 oz jugular  two
statuesque ladies sandwich him grinding up on honeycutt
he takes the jugular from his lips  as he speaks flames
come out of his mouth

				honeycutt contd
			ooooooweeee  da bomb makes me
			wanna get my freak on

				two mo hoochies
			honeycutt lets get our swerve on

cut to commercial 2

ext street corner  any ghetto usa  day

a middledaged caucasian male timmi hillnigger is
surrounded by a mob deep of hardlooking playaz

				timmy hillnigger
			yo my name be timmi hillnigger  i
			was born and raised up in strong
			island so you know i know about my
			peeps my niggaz in the gittoe  i
			design and own timmi hillnigger
			125 authentic gittoe active wear

dawg 1 steps forward

				dawg 1
			hillnigger keeps it real

										  86


dawg 2 steps forward also

				dawg 2
			timmis gots all da latest gear

				timmy hillnigger
			if you want to keep it really real
			never get out of the gittoe stay
			broke and continue to add to my
			multibillion dollar corporation
			keep buyin all my gear  the timmi
			hillnigger collection  we keep it
			so real we give you the bullet holes

hoe 1 laying in a white thong on top of a white rollsroyce

				hoe 1
			all my niggaz wear hillnigger or
			they dont wear a damn thing at all
			its gittoe fabulous

ext the white house  night

the lights are on in the white house

				delacroix vo
			i was sunk dead  my goose was
			cooked  the cat was in the bag and
			the bag was in the river

int the white house

president clinton is seen behind a tv set laughing his head
off

int the white house  press conference  day

the president of the us stands behind a podium and takes
questions from the press

				reporter
			did you watch mantan  the new
			millennium minstrel show last night

				president clinton
			yes i did and i can honestly say i
			feel it promotes racial healing

int dunwittys office  morning

dunwitty delacroix and sloan are joined by a young caucasian
woman myrna goldfarb

										  87


				dunwitty
			i know all of you have seen the
			overnight ratings  through the
			roof  but in this game you gotta
			be one two three steps ahead  i
			introduce you to myrna goldfarb
			shes the best media consultant in
			the biz

				myrna
			first i would like to say i love
			the show  its very courageous
			my parents marched in selma
			alabama with dr king

				delacroix
			why are you here

				myrna
			good question straight to the
			point  i like your style  because
			of the content of the show we can
			expect some spirited reactions

				dunwitty
			myrna is here to help us plan our
			strategy

				myrna
			the best defense is offense

				delacroix
			i thought it was the other way
			around

				myrna
			you get my point  ive mapped out
			some strategies to help bolster our
			position

				sloan
			which is

				myrna
			that this is fun  nice wholesome
			fun

				dunwitty
			goldfarb run it down for them

										  88


				myrna
			the mantan manifesto  catchy aint
			it  number one  we gainfully
			employ african americans in front
			of and behind the cameras  two
			let the audience decide  three
			who put these critics in charge
			these socalled cultural police
			four  who determines what is black
			five  mantan is a satire  six
			if they cant take a joke f em

				dunwitty
			we all stick to this its smooth
			sailing

				sloan
			it sounds kinda simplistic to me

				myrna
			ive done my research

				delacroix
			these are black folks were talkin
			about not some lab mice in a cage

				myrna
			monsieur delacroix i got my phd in
			africanamerican studies from yale
			so i do feel im qualified

				dunwitty
			let myrna finish

				myrna
			thank you  and always smile

				delacroix
			yeah show dem pearly whites

she ignores him

				myrna
			wear kente cloth invoke the name
			of dr martin luther king use the
			word community often when talking
			about mantan  and finally our
			biggest plus is you pierre
			delacroix

				delacroix
			me

										  89


				dunwitty
			yes you

				myrna
			this show was created conceived by
			you a nonthreatening african
			american male  voila  end of
			argument  it cant be racist
			because youre black

				delacroix
			im not black  im a negro

int cns hallway  post meeting

sloan and delacroix are walking in the hallway  they keep
getting interrupted by people who congratulate delacroix on
the success of the show

				sloan
			so you have your small victory now
			what

				delacroix
			a small victory isnt that small
			when youve been use to losing

int delacroixs office  morning

sloan hands delacroix a wrapped gift

				delacroix
			what is this

				sloan
			a gift

				delacroix
			for what

				sloan
			no matter what you think you did
			come up with something unique
			open it

delacroix opens his gift  it is one of those old cast iron
black collectibles  this one is called the jolly nigger
bank a head of a negro big lips big nose wide eyes

				sloan contd
			put a coin in the hand

he puts a quarter in the hand

										  90


				sloan contd
			watch this

she pushes the lever and the mouth opens the quarter flies
in and his eyes go to the top of his head

				sloan contd
			read it on the back

delacroix reads

				delacroix
			the jolly nigger bank

				sloan
			this is authentic not a repro
			circa turn of the century

				delacroix
			thanks

				sloan
			i thought it was appropiate

				delacroix
			is that good or bad

				sloan
			its all good  you got a hit show
			youre gonna need a bank  plus i
			love these old black collectibles

				delacroix
			how so

				sloan
			to me it shows part of our history
			in this country a time when we
			were considered inferior subhuman

close on jolly nigger bank

delacroix puts another quarter in the hand and flips the
lever  the quarter flies into his mouth as his eyes roll to
the top of his head

int wlib  day

delacroix is a guest on the gary byrd show  wlib is the
number one black talk radio station in the nation

										  91


				gary byrd
			our guest today is pierre delacroix
			he is the creator of the highly
			controversial tv show mantan
			lets get right into it  you have
			been called by some in the community
			a traitor a sellout an uncle tom
			why does your show generate such
			feelings

				delacroix
			because race has always been a
			sensitive issue in this country
			gary i have no problem with people
			disagreeing with the show its
			when folks start trying to mess
			with my inherent right as an
			artist thats when i get mad  no
			one in any way shape or form
			should be censored

				gary byrd
			no matter how sexist or racist the
			material may be

				delacroix
			yes  and i say yes because who is
			to judge  who is to stand before
			us and say this is righteous and
			this is not  who  who can play god

				gary byrd
			but the line has to be drawn

				delacroix
			dont you people get it  were in
			the 21st century  slavery was over
			four hundred years ago  all that
			stuff people talked in the old
			days its over  folks always
			crying white man this white man
			that  lets all grow up

				gary byrd
			are you trying to excuse our
			holocaust

				delacroix
			can i finish  thank you  i had a
			great aunt we called her sister
			she went to her grave not believing
			man had walked on the moon
				more

										  92


				delacroix contd
			when i was a little kid i would
			argue with her its on tv  she
			would answer i dont care whats
			on that idiot box  no man is on
			the moon  well there are a lot
			of your negroes just like my aunt
			sister  face up to it  the world
			has changed and if you dont adapt
			change with it you will be left
			behind  this show is a parody
			are you telling me that nobody can
			use some humor have some laughs in
			their lives  is that what youre
			telling me

ext times square  night

mantan and cheeba gaze skyward at a behemoth billboard for
their show  some people recognize them and start asking for
autographs and a crowd forms

on mantan and cheeba

theyre enjoying the adulation

another corner

big black and the maumaus also look up at the 2 real coons
billboard  their faces say they are not happy

close on 2 real coons billboard

								  cut to

close on american flag

it blows majestically in the wind

				delacroix vo
			when american people want something
			they want it now they want it big

newsreel footage

kids swinging in their hula hoops

				delacroix vo contd
			they wanted the hula hoop

newsreel footage

kids playing with their yoyos

										  93


				delacroix vo contd
			they wanted their yoyos

newsreel footage

a young girl petting her pet rock

				delacroix vo contd
			who could ever forget those lovable
			pet rocks

								  cut to

int toys r us

parents are fighting over beanie babies  its a ruckus

				delacroix vo
			beanie babies

ext times square  night

mantan and sleep n eat are doing a tap dance on the giant
diamondvision screen

				delacroix vo
			now the latest hottest newest
			sensation across the nation was

close on mantan and sleep n eat

				delacroix vo contd
			blackface

blackface montage

we see americans  young old black and white in blackface
mantan and sleep n eat are 1 and 2 in the bestselling
halloween masks  they fly out of the stores  we see mantan
and sleep n eat the dusky duo action dolls backpacks
lunch boxes tshirts jackets board games watches and
cdrom video games  football players wrestlers in black
face also

				delacroix vo contd
			it was the rage

int recording studio

big black stands behind 116th black who sits in front of a
laptop computer

										  94


				116th black
			big black i cant log on the
			mantan website now its overloaded

				delacroix vo
			the mantan  the new millennium
			minstrel show at wwwniggercom was
			getting 500000 hits a day

				big black
			keep trying

				116th black
			im on it

int car dealer  day

a mercedesbenz salesman is showing mantan all the newest
latest models

int justines restaurant  night

mantan and cheeba sit at a big table with puff daddy andre
harrell russell simmons and other assorted rappers
everyone is drinking that dom p  buxom hotties sit in
between the big willies

ext cns building  day

a group of protesters led by the reverend jesse jackson and
al sharpton carry signs and banners objecting to mantan
theyre calling upon the fcc to pull the show off the air
and for the boycotting of the shows two sponsors timmi
hillnigger and da bomb malt liquor

on protesters

the press is watching

int delacroixs office  day

delacroix has now decorated his entire office with black
collectibles art  we see black jockey lawn pieces banks
mammies signs for products etc

on window

delacroix and mantan are looking out the office window down
on the protesters

				mantan
			why is jess and reverend al down
			there

										  95


				delacroix
			so they can be on tv

				mantan
			you sound like the media

				delacroix
			this is nothing  it will blow over
			by tomorrow

				mantan
			same thing giuliani said

				delacroix
			tomorrow it will be all about
			cruelty to animals or some sex
			scandal  besides there is no such
			thing as bad publicity

he hands mantan a wrapped gift

				delacroix contd
			rest your mind  its a little
			somethin something

mantan opens it  he pulls out an old pair of tap shoes

				delacroix contd
			those were the last pair of tap
			shoes worn by bill bojangles
			robinson  in fact he died with
			them on

mantan starts to laugh

				delacroix contd
			no joke  serious

				mantan
			hope the same thing doesnt happen
			to me  thats some big shoes to
			fill

				delacroix
			in time

int recording studio  night

the maumaus are in meeting  they all drink 64 ounce
jugulars of da bomb are all attired from head to toe in
timmi hillnigger active ghetto wear and brandish their 9s

				big black
			that tom that negro

										  96


				double black
			that handkerchief head

				black black
			dancing monkey

				116th black
			benedict arnold

				big black
			that simpleton is holding back
			the race  they got rid of us and
			keep those two buffoons mantan and
			sleep n eat yknowwhatimsayin

				hard black
			yo big black sleep n eat aint
			even a nigger yknowwhatimsayin

				smooth black
			hes mexican yknowwhatimsayin

				mo black
			hes dominican yknowwhatimsayin

				jo black
			hes peter rican
			yknowwhatimsayin

				big black
			same thing yknowwhatimsayin
			yknowwhatimsayin

				116th black
			we know  we know  yo check it
			my black brothers we cant let
			this slide  not this injustice
			nah no way  dem two real coons
			iz ill

				big black
			116 tru dat  true dat

				double black
			let me gat him

				big black
			nah too easy this has to be
			symbolic has to be on the world
			stage

int mantans apartment  central park west  day

mantan is showing sloan his new residence

										  97


				sloan
			this is a nice place  it must have
			cost a pretty penny

				mantan
			sloan i got it like dat

				sloan
			oh you do huh

				mantan
			just a little something somethin

				sloan
			i hope you save a little somethin
			somethin

				mantan
			gots no intention of ending up broke

				sloan
			yknow at the beginnin of the
			century africanamerican had to
			perform in blackface  you ever
			heard of bert williams  he was a
			great artist

				mantan
			no before my time

				sloan
			you dont read do you

				mantan
			never read a book in my whole life

				sloan
			maybe you need to start

				mantan
			maybe i need to do a lot of things

				sloan
			bert williams and the rest they
			had to black up  they had no
			choice  they were considered
			35ths of a human being  did you
			know thats written in the
			constitution of the united states

										  98


				mantan
			why all of a sudden are you flippin
			on me  this blackface thing was
			part of the deal from the gitgo
			dont even try to play it like you
			aint a part of all this  you down
			with delacroix

				sloan
			i just dont want you and cheeba to
			get hurt

				mantan
			we can look out for ourselves

int sleep n eats dressing room  night

sleep n eat is applying his black face

int mantans dressing room

mantan also puts on his mask

int stage

close on honeycutt

				honeycutt
			lets have a warm nigger applause
			for our two favorite coons mantan
			and sleep n eat  two real coons

on audience

the entire audience is in black face  they applaud yell
cheer wildly  this is becoming a religious cult

on stage

the curtain rises on mantan and sleep n eat  they are in a
cotton field

				mantan
			i fell out of my bed last night

				sleep n eat
			you slept too near where you got in

				mantan
			i slept too near where i fell out

				sleep n eat
			you expect the unexpected in
			circumstances of that peculiarity

										  99


				mantan
			sleep n eat whats the matter
			with you  using all dose ten
			dollar words

				sleep n eat
			mantan it is possible that my
			hyphenated sentences are entirely
			too complex for all the intellect
			contained in that diminutive coconut

				mantan
			hold on you allegorical hypothesis
			dont cross words with me

				sleep n eat
			aint jemima on the pancake box

				mantan
			dats yo uncle ben  that reminds
			me ive seen a lot of troubles
			lately

				sleep n eat
			how be dat

				mantan
			i dont know who i am

				sleep n eat
			well ill be an alabama porch
			monkeys uncle

				mantan
			years ago i married a widow who had
			a grownup daughter  my daddy
			visited us often fell in love with
			my stepdaughter and married her
			thusly he became my soninlaw and
			my stepdaughter became my mother
			because she was my fathers wife
			soon after dis my wife gave birth
			to a son which of course was my
			fathers brother inlaw and my
			uncle for he was the brother of my
			stepmother  my fathers wife also
			became the mother of a son  he was
			of course my brother and also my
			grandchild for he was the son of my
			daughter  accordingly my wife was
			my grandmother because she was my
			mothers mother
				more

										 100


				mantan contd
			sleep n eat i was my wifes
			husband and grandchild at one and
			the same time  and lo and behold
			as the husband of a persons
			grandmother is his grandfather i
			mantan became my own grandfather

				sleep n eat
			mantan dat sho is a whopper

they both start to do the jig

int control booth

delacroix is dying laughing

				dunwitty
			you couldnt hold out any longer
			huh

on sloan

she looks at delacroix her face tells us shes not amused
at all

on tv screen

the dusky duo is joined on the cotton patch by snowflake
rastus sambo nigga jim jungle bunny aunt jemima and the
porch monkeys band

				mantan
			i feel a song a comin on

				sleep n eat
			a song a comin i feel

the porch monkeys kick in and mantan sings

				mantan
			i fell right dead in lovewid da
			sweetest little dovelittle lulu
			snow from tennesseeshe made a
			slave of mean from her ise never
			freeid do anything shed ask me
			to

sleep n eat takes over

										 101


				sleep n eat
			de money i did saveto dat yeller
			gal i gavefor to keep till we was
			wedshe told me dat nobodyd get
			away dat cashill take good care
			of date she said

everybody joins in for the chorus

				pikcaninninies
			shes de cutest gal in all dis
			world i knowif you met her you
			would say it sooh lulu lulu
			evry day i pines for youno other
			gal will doall ive got is yours
			for life my little my little
			yaller loua week ago dat lou wid
			anudder nigger flewtook ma money
			too all i hadshe broke ma heart
			in twowhen i heard dat she had
			flewdo you wonder dat i feel so
			badshe told me not to cry case
			she didnt say good byebut shed
			take care of dat redand nobody
			would get de cash away from
			hershed keep her word to me she
			said

int recording studio  night

the maumau clan surrounds the television monitor howling
in disgust

				big black
			he gots to be did

				116th black
			did he gots to be

int conference room  day

delacroix is leading the meeting of the staff writers on
mantan

				delacroix vo
			to my astonishment not only did
			the people in tv land love us but
			also the critics

										 102


close on delacroix

				delacroix vo contd
			mantan was being hailed as
			groundbreaking barrier breaking
			also earth shaking  i looked
			forward to my awards  just
			vindication for all my hard work
			all my talent that had been
			previously overlooked

int theater  night

delacroix sits in tux amongst many stars

				alec baldwin
			the winner for best new sitcom is
			the envelope please

a starlet hands him the envelope

				alec baldwin contd
			the winner is pierre delacroix
			for mantan  the new millennium
			minstrel show

delacroix jumps out og his chair and starts sobbing  two
ushers have to help him to the stage  he is overcome with
emotion  the audience is on their feet with a standing
ovation  he hugs alec baldwin

				delacroix
			alec baldwin this is the very
			first time weve ever met you
			dont know this im your biggest
			fan and i want you to have my emmy
			its for you out of the deep
			bowels of my heart  i dont
			deserve this  you take it

alec baldwin is shocked  he grabs delacroix in a bear hug
and they both cry like babies

				delacroix vo contd
			if i did that id be assured to
			work forever  delacroix the
			grateful negro

int hotel ballroom  night

delacroix sits at a table in his lucky tux

				woody harrelson
			the winner for best sitcom is

										 103


woody opens the envelope

				woody harrelson contd
			pierre delacroix for mantan
			come on up and get your golden globe

delacroix jumps out of his seat and sprints  he gets down
on the stage and starts to breakdance even spinning on his
head

				delacroix vo
			that routine would go over like
			gangbusters  i would be a dancing
			fool hollywoods new favorite
			negro move over danny morgan
			samuel l move over whoopi

int conference room  day

delacroix is finishing up the meeting

				delacroix
			i had it all planned  to the t

int dance studio  day

mantan is running rigorous rehearsal of the pikaninnies
over and over repetition after repetition snowflake
rastus sambo nigger jim jungle bunny and aunt jemima try
to do an intricate dance step

				mantan
			im tired of you pickaninnies
			messing up my choreography  it
			goes like this

mantan does the step with ease

				mantan contd
			try it again

the dancers do it once more

				mantan contd
			better

cheeba walks in  mantan checks him out

				mantan contd
			lets take a ten minute break

they quickly file past cheeba without saying a word  the
rehearsal space is just the two

										 104


				cheeba
			im not drinking the koolaid

				mantan
			what are you talkin about

				cheeba
			jim jones yknow  im not drinking
			the koolaid

				mantan
			meaning

				cheeba
			im out

				mantan
			good  ive got a broken back from
			carrying you all these years anyway

				cheeba
			so thats what you been doing

				mantan
			damn skippy

				cheeba
			youre in this up till ya neck

				mantan
			dont shoot me im just the piano
			players

				cheeba
			you can walk away  we both can

				mantan
			yeah thats easy for you to do
			you never had any talent

				cheeba
			im so tired of you running that
			i always worked hard for you  you
			think im a leech a klingon i
			quit

cheeba walks out

				mantan
			im the star of mantan so you do
			that  quit walk away  and dont
			come crawling back either

										 105


int limousine  night

mantan and sloan ride in back  hes still thinking about
cheeba

				sloan
			why dont you call him

				mantan
			for what  he left  not me

ext apollo theatre  night

the limo drives past the world famous apollo theatre in
harlem a big crowd is in front

tight on theatre

it reads mantan the marvelous

int dressing room  night

its an unruly fired up crowd that can be heard all the way
back here

				sloan
			youre sure this is a good idea

				mantan
			my people love me

he kisses her she doesnt resist

				sloan
			i love you

after a long deep kiss she gently pulls back

				sloan contd
			ill be down front  you better
			start putting your face on

				mantan
			yknow what

				sloan
			what

				mantan
			you look beautiful like that

int apollo theatre  night

sloan takes a seat down front

										 106


int dressing room

mantan face already done puts on the firetruck red lipstick

int apollo theatre

sloan is looking around this boisterous crowd when she sees

on the maumaus

in one of the side boxes

on big black

he waves to his sister

on sloan

she knows her brother and his clan are up to no good as the
house lights go black

angle on stage

honeycutt walks out on stage  the audience goes crazy

				honeycutt
			thank you so very much  show me
			some love

he laughs

				honeycutt contd
			thank you  my name is honeycutt
			and i want to welcome you to a very
			special evening  its always great
			coming back to the world famous
			apollo theatre

the audience applauds

				honeycutt contd
			as everybody knows if you can make
			it here on this stage in front of
			the most discriminating audience in
			the world you can make it anywhere
			ladies and gentlemen lets show
			some real uptown love for mantan
			the marvelous

the curtain goes up and mantan the marvelous stands there
arms raised  he starts to do his thing

										 107


on maumau box

led by big black they start shouting insults at mantan

on stage

mantan is a pro he doesnt stop  in fact this makes him
dance harder and harder

on sloan

she leaves her seat and goes to stop her brother

on stage

mantan is moving and grooving  the unrest in the audience
has picked up

on audience

they start to boo  the tide has turned  encouraged the
maumaus pick it up another notch

on mantan

hes human after all and he does hear the boos  dont let
those athletes in the papers fool you  you hear the boos
and nobody nobody except dennis rodman likes to be booed
mantan is getting rattled

on maumaus box

sloan rushes into the box and they are quiet  they dont
have to say or shout a thing  the rough apollo crowd is
doing it all themselves

two shot on sloan and big black

the sister and big brother look at each other  there is no
love between them

				sloan
			this doesnt change a thing  i
			will still love him

big black cant believe what he has just heard

on stage

now projectiles are raining down upon mantan  this has
turned into a ruckus a brouhaha a donnybrook  honeycutt
races onto the stage to pull off the still tap dancing
mantan as the harlem natives bumrush the stage  the worm
has turned

										 108


on maumaus box

mantan led by honeycutt runs for his life

on mob

they chase him

on backstage door

mantan is hauling ass

ext backstage

the door crashes open mantan rockets out into an open car
door

on car door

the door slams

ext street  night

the car spins away

int car  night

delacroix is behind the wheel  this is the most shaken
weve seen mantan to date

				delacroix
			pull ya self together

mantan is distraught

				delacroix contd
			what are you  a man or a mouse
			are you a punk  punking out on me

				mantan
			no

				delacroix
			you getting scared because some
			people dont like what you are doing

				mantan
			yo dela they tried to lynch my
			black ass up in dat piece

										 109


				delacroix
			youve made it from the guttermost
			to the uppermost  dont you know
			you should never let them see you
			sweat  yknowwhatimsayin

				mantan
			yeah

				delacroix
			and now is definitely not the time
			to bitch up

ext harlem street  night

delacroix speeds away

int bet studio  night

mantan is on the bet show with host tavis smiley

				tavis smiley
			our guest tonight is the
			extraordinary talented performer
			mantan  thanks for coming in

				mantan
			tavis thank you for having me

				tavis smiley
			before we begin i want to thank
			you for coming on my show for your
			first television interview  you
			could have chosen mike wallace
			barbara walters jane pauley
			whatnot but youre here

				mantan
			im more comfortable around my
			people

				tavis smiley
			lets jump right into it  your
			show has sparked a world of
			controversy provoked a tone of
			dialogue  how do you see all of
			this

				mantan
			yo tavis check it out  this is
			the twoone the 21st century and
			its all about the money  like my
			man mase says its all about the
			benjamins

										 110


				tavis smiley
			money and nothing else

				mantan
			money makes the world go round  it
			aint no joke being poor  i know
			whatimtalkinbout
			yknowwhatimsayin  ive lived on
			the street  ive been homeless
			ive learned how to play the game
			work the game be in the game

				tavis smiley
			is it inevitable that the game
			plays you

				mantan
			no if you go with the flow tavis
			thats what a lot of negroes dont
			understand  protesting isnt gonna
			do a damn thing  if people dont
			like our satire in our number one
			hit show then dont watch it  or
			better yet write your own show  do
			it better

				tavis smiley
			dont you feel that is a simplistic
			retort

				mantan
			i dont know what a retort is but
			its simple  mantan  the new
			millennium minstrel show is
			universal  its not just for
			negroes in compton or 125th in
			harlem  this is america  our
			ancestors helped build this country
			we got a right just like everybody
			else  im not gonna box myself in
			this show makes people think and
			theyre laughing at the same time

				tavis smiley
			i admit thats a very hard thing
			to do  quickly lets go to the
			phones before we pay the bills and
			hear from our proud sponsors da
			bomb  125 pure pleasure malt
			liquor  it makes you wanna get ya
			freak on and timmi hillnigger
			125 authentic gittoe gear when
			you want to be gittoed fabulous
				more

										 111


				tavis smiley contd
			our first caller is big black from
			brooklyn  go head

on mantan

				big black os
			microphone check one two  one
			two  yo tavis i be lovin yo show
			but mantan you is foul  why you
			perpetrating  you a sellout

				mantan
			thats our opinion

				big black os
			youre a traitor to the race  a
			tool for the caucasoids

				mantan
			why  because im successful
			because i dont use causcasoids
			as an excuse for not fulfilling my
			dreams

				big black os
			i aint hearing all dat noise  you
			getting played and you dont even
			know it

				tavis smiley
			and big black from brooklyn what
			do you do

				big black os
			what do i do

				tavis smiley
			what do you do

				big black os
			im a revolutionary

				mantan
			thats a job

				big black os
			thats a full time job especially
			when sellouts like you are running
			around acting insane

				tavis smiley
			thats enough

										 112


				big black os
			and another thing you better stay
			away from my sister or you better

click

				tavis smiley
			ladies and gentlemen there is no
			need to go there  we can all agree
			to disagree without making threats

int delacroixs office  night

sloan turns off the tv

				delacroix
			whyd you do that

				sloan
			i dont want to hear it

				delacroix
			how long have you and hambone been
			hangin out

				sloan
			youre the one that put us together
			were friends

				delacroix
			that crazy brother of yours doesnt
			think so

				sloan
			hes just playing big brother

				delacroix
			oh is he  you getting jiggy with
			mantan

				sloan
			please dont go there

				delacroix
			dunwitty and i feel youve been
			getting too close to him getting
			his mind all messed up

				sloan
			i cant lie to him  if he asks me
			something i tell him what i think

				delacroix
			do you have to be so damn forthright

										 113


				sloan
			dela you should try it sometime
			come into the light

				delacroix
			light

				sloan
			that which has been hidden in
			darkness is now in the light  this
			bucket of blood

				delacroix
			you can talk all that mumbo jumbo
			if you want to but your hands are
			much bloody  i know where i made
			my big mistake  i have a general
			rule never get involved
			romantically with somebody crazier
			than you

cut to flashback

int midtown hotel room  day

delacroix and sloan are taking off their clothes

				delacroix
			this is crazy

				sloan
			thats why it will be so much fun

they kiss fall half undressed upon the motel bed

								  cut back to

int delacroixs office  night

				sloan
			that was a mistake but i dont
			regret it

				delacroix
			the first and only time  a big
			mistake  im gonna have to ask you
			not to see mantan anymore

				sloan
			work related or otherwise

										 114


				delacroix
			otherwise  i trust you know the
			difference  youre an intelligent
			woman finished at nyu

				sloan
			dela kiss my big black ass

				delacroix
			and thats how you got me in the
			first place

sloan pulls a 34 inch cassette out of her bag and hands it
to him

				sloan
			i want you to please view this  it
			may save your life

int mantans apartment  day

mantan and delacroix are in the middle of a heated discussion

				delacroix
			you shouldnt even be mad at me
			over sloan

				mantan
			what you did is dead wrong

				delacroix
			oh is it  buddy boy in this
			business if people dont produce
			they get fired

				mantan
			sloan is the hardest working person
			ive ever met

				delacroix
			let me ask you a question if i may
			how do you think she got the job in
			the first place  i dont mean to
			burst your bubble mantan the
			marvelous but sloan is an
			opportunity

				mantan
			i dont believe it

				delacroix
			do i have to spell it out for you
			in fact go ask sloan yourself

										 115


int sloans studio apartment  day

mantan is grilling sloan

				mantan
			how did you get this gig

				sloan
			worked my black ass off first as
			an intern then worked my way up to
			this position

				mantan
			you leave something out

				sloan
			after my internship expired dela
			was impressed and offered me a
			position as his assistant

				mantan
			and

				sloan
			and what

				mantan
			stop playing me sloan

				sloan
			just ask me what you want to know

				mantan
			oh you gonna make me say it

				sloan
			say what manray

				mantan
			did you ever sleep with dela

				sloan
			we did it one time only once  it
			had nothing to do with the job it
			was stupid  everything ive got
			ive earned

				mantan
			aw cmon

				sloan
			thats ancient history  that has
			nothing to do with you and i

										 116


				mantan
			so you say  sloan you wuz gonna
			use me up just like you used dela
			work it to the top  i never
			imagined people in this biz could
			flip on you like ihop  im damn
			happy dela fired ya ass

				sloan
			forget about me are you a puppet
			for dela

				mantan
			dont try to change to the subject

				sloan
			why dont you answer

				mantan
			i know i wont be your puppet

				sloan
			you can go now

				mantan
			i wuz leaving anyway for good

int recording studio  night

as usual the clan is smoking and drinking da bomb a thick
marijuana haze hangs over the studio

				116th black
			yo i got da bomb plan  we gonna
			hook homeslice mantan up nicely

he holds up a floppy disk

int delacroixs office  night

delacroix sits behind the desk  hes bought even more black
collectibles hes surrounded by them

on delacroix

he dials the phone

				delacroix
			hello mommy how are you

										 117


				orchid os
			im doing okay  been reading about
			your show its all over everywhere
			i watched its all over everywhere
			i watched it once  i thought you
			said there would be no buffoonery

				delacroix
			you going to attack me too  the
			show is a hit  arent you happy
			for me

int orchids house

				orchid
			of course im happy for you
			youve worked very hard for your
			success

				delacroix os
			yes i have very hard  has daddy
			called

				orchid
			no

on delacroix

				delacroix
			not at all

				orchid os
			you know how your daddy is

				delacroix
			if and when he calls please dont
			forget to ask him if hes seen
			mantan

				orchid os
			i wont forget  when are you
			coming up here to see your mother

				delacroix
			soon

delacroix hangs up the phone  he takes out some change from
his pocket and puts a quarter in the hand of his jolly
nigger bank

tight on jnb

delacroix flips the lever and the quarter flies into the
mouth as the eyes roll to the top of its head

										 118


delacroix does this several times  closeups of the black
collectibles in the office

closer on jnb

delacroix is staring at the jnb when its mouth opens a
quarter flies in and its eyes roll to the top of its head

on delacroix

he is incredulous

				delacroix vo contd
			when i thought or imagined that my
			favorite jolly nigger bank an
			inanimate object a piece of cold
			cast iron was moving by itself

delacroix slowly carefully approaches the bank and picks it
off the table

				delacroix vo contd
			i knew i was getting paranoid
			did i really see what i saw or was
			i buggin

on jnb

its stopped moving

int stage  night

honeycutt is warming up the crazed black facewearing
audience  he points to a young white male bobby

				honeycutt
			is you a nigga

				bobby
			hell yeah im a nigga

the audience cheers wildly  honeycutt points to an old
white lady louise a senior citizen

				honeycutt
			maam is you a nigga

				louise
			yesiree bob you darn tootin im a
			nigger

the audience loses it as honeycutt hugs louise as if shes a
grandmother

										 119


int mantans dressing room  night

mantan looks up at his makeup laid out before him on the
counter

tight on mantan

he stares at himself in the dressing room mirror  mantan
cant stand to black up anymore

int stage  night

honeycutt stands next to a young black couple tre and stacy

				honeycutt
			are you a nigger

				tre
			yo

				honeycutt
			are you a nigga

				stacy
			honeycutt im a really real
			niggress

stacy gets a standing ovation

				honeycutt
			you  you  him  her  were all
			gods niggas  even the lost souls
			who dont know it are niggas cuz
			niggas is a beautiful thing

int backstage  night

as mantan walks down the hallway we notice he is not dressed
in his costume and he has no black face on

ext sleep n eats dressing room  night

a worker is painting over sleep n eats name on the door
and replacing it with honeycutt

				mantan
			they dont waste any time do they

int control booth  night

the phone rings next to delacroix and he answers

										 120


				delacroix
			delacroix  what  ill be right
			down

dunwitty looks at him

int backstage  night

delacroix is met by bunning the stage manager

				bunning
			you better talk to him  he wont
			listen to me

delacroix walks over to mantan who stands in a corner

				delacroix
			mantan we got a show to tape

				mantan
			my name is manray goddamnit

				delacroix
			kook and the gang its manray
			lets do the taping  you go back
			to your dressing room get dressed
			and blacken up

				manray
			im not playin myself no mo

				delacroix
			how you sound

				manray
			i wont do it anymore

				delacroix
			manray im very sorry about ya boy
			cheeba and sloan  believe me it
			gave me no joy pulling ya coattail
			about her just lookin out for a
			brother  i feel you all this
			stuff happenin at once but you
			cant let if affect your work  you
			gotta be professional

				manray
			im always gonna be that  but i
			aint doing no more buck dancing

				delacroix
			no costume  no blackface

										 121


				manray
			no  no

manray leads the way to the stage

				bunning
			i should notify dunwitty

				delacroix
			and i should put my foot dead up in
			yo ass

				bunning
			i wont be held responsible

int stage  night

honeycutt stands in front of the drawn curtain

				honeycutt
			we apologize for the holdup but
			without further delay ladies and
			gentlemen boys and girls lets
			give it up for mantan

a thunderous roar from the studio audience

				honeycutt contd
			cmon dont be niggardly give it
			up  show mantan some love

the curtain rises and manray stands before them in his
regular street clothes and no black face

on audience

the thunderous roar is cut off like the lights like con
edison pulls the plug when you dont pay the bill

int control booth  night

dunwitty is hysterical

				dunwitty
			stop the tape  stop the tape
			delacroix  get me delacroix

int stage  night

manray speaks to the silence

										 122


				manray
			cousins i want all of you to go to
			your windows  go to your windows
			and yell scream with all the life
			you can muster up inside your
			assaulted bruised amd battered
			bodies

on manray

				manray
			im sick and tired of being a
			nigger and im not gonna take it
			anymore

on various audience members

black and white  male and female  young and old  all in
black face

on manray

he collapses onto the stage and the audience sits on their
hands  manray gets up and begins to dance

on stage

dunwitty runs to bunning

				dunwitty
			drop the curtain  drop the curtain

bunning drops the curtain  security rushes onto the stage
and grabs manray

				dunwitty contd
			escort him out the building now

				manray
			i wasnt finished doing my dance

				dunwitty
			but you are finished  done
			niggas like you are a dime a dozen
			im gonna slide honeycutt right
			into ya spot  we wont miss a step
			get him outta here

the security guards move manray as dunitty glares at
delacroix  honeycutt is all smiles hes being bumped to
the top

				dunwitty contd
			dela ill deal with you next

										 123


ext backstage

the security guards toss manray out the stage door  manray
looks down the alley and its empty except for a parked suv
he picks himself up and does a joyous dance  this is
manrays dance of freedom

on street

the big black chevy suburban creeps down the alley to a
dancing manray and comes to rest right in front of him
manray tries to shield his eyes from the hibeam headlights

				manray
			whaddup

no one comes out

				manray contd
			whaddup

the doors open and the maumaus file out

				big black
			you truly are a dancing fool

				116th black
			yo black you looking for trouble

				manray
			dont start none wont be none

the maumaus are dying laughing  manray tries to walk
through them  they block him  manray attempts to climb
over the suburban  hes quickly nabbed give a good ole
brooklyn beatdown then thrown into the rear of the vehicle

ext empty brooklyn street  night

the maumau mobile rolls up to an abandoned factory

on chevy suburban

the maumaus quickly carry manray out from the back of the
vehicle into the factory

int factory  night

manray sits feet and hands tied in the middle of a
cavernous space  a digital video camera stands on a tripod
in front of him

				big black
			you is one dead nigger

										 124


				manray
			what did i do

				big black
			what did you do

the maumaus laugh

				big black contd
			brothers he asks what did he do

				double black
			if you dont know there is nuthin
			we can do for you

				big black
			nigga you will be executed

on manray

his face says he cant believe this is happening

				manray
			for singing and dancing

				116th black
			you will be done in front of the
			world

				mo black
			the whole world will be watching

				116th black
			via the internet

				delacroix vo
			the maumaus had come up with a
			brilliant sadistic plan to
			broadcast mantans execution live
			over the internet

				116th black
			we have pirated broadcasting
			facilities  no way we can be found
			out  were in cyberspace

				jo black
			nobody will find you till its too
			late

montage

various newsrooms computer screens people running
shouting yelling over phones

										 125


				delacroix vo
			the maumaus sent anonymous email
			proclamations to the websites of
			cnn abc msnbc and cbs  it was an
			invite to witness the dance of
			death 9 pm prime time tomorrow
			night on a site to be designated at
			a later date

int fbi headquarters  night

delacroix and cheeba are being interrogated in two adjoining
spaces  we are seeing them through the twoway mirrors

				delacroix vo
			its no joke getting grilled by the
			fbi for five houts

delacroix screams

				delacroix contd
			i dont know anything

				fbi agent
			we know youre involved in this
			abduction

int interrogation room  night

				cheeba
			you know more than me  why would i
			do something like that to my best
			friend  why

				fbi agent 2
			you tell us

ext fbi headquarters  night

its a mob scene as the media frenzy heightens  delacroix
and cheeba try to fight their way through the print and
broadcast journalists trying to question them as they leave
fbi headquarters

				delacroix vo
			somehow someway somebody had
			tipped the sharks off  it was a
			feeding frenzy

delacroix and cheeba start pushing people out of the way as
they get in to their waiting car

										 126


int xforce war room  night

there is a flurry of activity  people man phones computers
all hitech

				delacroix vo
			the xforce was brought onto the
			case  when something involves the
			internet these are the people ibm
			xerox the cia fbi even the us
			government go to

on clock

it reads tminus 19 hours 22 minutes

				delacroix vo contd
			it was a race against time  the
			dance of death

int cns studio  night

dunwitty is taping a spot

				dunwitty
			hello my name is thomas dunwitty
			im the senior vp of the
			entertainment division here at cns
			i come to you with a heavy heart

int sloans apartment  continuous

shes watching dunwitty on tv

				dunwitty
			this abduction is a cowardly vile
			sinful and dastardly act and i
			promise these creeps will be
			prosecuted to the fullest extent of
			the law  this is an attack on your
			american way of life

int delacroixs apartment

hes watching the same

				dunwitty
			we here at cns are offering a
			100000 cash award to any
			information that leads to the safe
			return home of our dear friend
			mantan

										 127


int cns studio

on dunwitty

				dunwitty
			help us and in addition you will
			get a gueststarring speaking role
			on the next mantan  the new
			millennium minstrel show plus an
			added bonus a lifetime of da bomb
			125 malt liquor  lets you get ya
			freak on as well as a full
			wardrobe of timmi hillnigger active
			git toe wear  mantan may god
			bless you

int xforce headquarters  day

delacroix and sloan hurry to stay with barnett hes the
commander of the xforce

				barnett
			lets go times wasting

int xforce war room

they follow barnett into the war room

				barnett
			they sent the notice out on an
			anonymous remailer

				sloan
			a what

				barnett
			its used to mask the origin of an
			email also the computer from which
			its sent

				delacroix
			there oughta be a law

				barnett
			not yet anyway its legal  we
			will find the source where its
			being broadcasted and hosted
			well get the people that
			bushwhacked mantan

				sloan
			before manray is dead

										 128


				barnett
			i cant answer that

on clock

it reads 6 hours 16 minutes

montage

police squads swat teams are busting into the wrong homes
apartments projects hitech computer labs looking for the
maumaus

				delacroix vo
			swat teams all up and down the east
			coast busted in on known dissidents
			looking for manray  all the tips
			called in info gathered through
			surveillance proved for naught

int xforce war room

				barnett
			the both of you should go home  we
			will keep you abreast

				sloan
			this is looking like a needle in a
			haystack  its hopeless

delacroix holds sloan as he leads her out  she is having
difficulty breathing with her asthma

				delacroix
			thank you for your help

				barnett
			the xforce always gets their man

int delacroixs apartment  night

he sits in front of his giant screen on the desk in front
of him is the 34 inch cassette sloan gave him  he picks it
up and turns it on

				delacroix vo
			it was ten oclock and the dance of
			death was about to commence

										 129


on monitor

				delacroix vo contd
			since a lot of people still didnt
			have computers the networks sought
			a court order to carry it live
			taking the feed off the internet
			it was granted  a life snuff
			broadcast right into your living
			room

on delacroix

				delacroix vo contd
			i had to give it to the maumau
			they definitely had a sense of
			irony  they chose wwwniggercom
			as the website to pirate

int factory  night

the maumaus ironically wear white masks they stand behind
the tiedup mantan  a device alters their voices

				big black
			we are live on the cyberspace
			whereas mantan is a tom

				black black
			whereas mantan is a disgrace

				smooth black
			whereas mantan is a headscratching
			footshuffling negro

				116th black
			whereas whereas wheres the ass

the maumaus laugh

				big black
			whereas mantan the dancing fool
			you are condemned to death

				jo black
			the dance of death

116th black unties manray

montage

we see delacroix sloan cheeba with lourdese dunwitty
junebug and dot orchid the xforce watching this spectacle
on computers or tv screens

										 130


on computer screen

we see a cartoon yosemite sam is shooting at the feet of
bugs bunny with his sixshooter in each hand  bugs bunny is
doing a fast dance dodging bullets

on monitor

the maumaus shoot at the feet of manray

				big black
			dance nigger

manray taps

				smooth black
			you got anything to say for yourself

				manray
			if youre gonna kill me kill me

				smooth black
			dont worry

int sloans apartment  continuous

she is having an asthma attack it was brought on by the
proceedings  sloan uses her inhaler

int factory  night

each maumau has a 9mm and is firing it at the feet of
manray  they scream faster and dance manray is
hoofing  hes never tapped this fast at this breakneck
pace ever  but its evident his dance is one of defiance
hes not dancing to stay alive

int delacroixs office  continuous

he screams at the monitor

				delacroix
			dont dance  dont do it

int factory

the maumaus have noticed manrays strong will his pride
and they dont like it  they shoot even more at his feet

				big black
			you aint blak

				double black
			blak you aint

										 131


				smooth black
			you a oreo  not blak  not blak

the maumaus start to chant blak blak blak

int sloans apartment

she hears this and quickly picks up the phone to call the
authorities

int factory

				manray
			there is nothing you can do to me
			im wearing the taps of bill
			bojangles robinson

manray is shot in one foot  then the other

				big black
			lets seeya dance now mr bojangles

manray somehow manages to right himself and starts to dance
again  the maumaus cant believe it

on manray

he dances like his life depends on it  despite the fact his
feet are a bloody mess

				big black contd
			you ain blak

he shoots manray in the chest the maumaus follow him and
he does a spastic last jig as the 9mm bullets riddle his
twitching body

on tv screen

it goes black

montage

helicopters fly through the night sky  cop cars and trucks
swat team vehicles are on the move  sirens blare

int delacroixs office

delacroixs head is on his desk  he has been crying  on
cue the black collectibles start to move  the jolly nigger
bank aunt jemimas mammies etc they are animated for
real

										 132


on delacroix

his head pops up as he sees the objects  he too is in
blackface  in a rage he starts to throw them against the
wall

				delacroix
			leave me alone  get away from me
			you spearchucker  you black sambo
			you nigger pickaninny  fat mammie

delacroix has finally lost it  he looks at the shambles
hes made of his office

ext factory  continuous

the maumaus come out of the factory high as a kite  each
has a big fat joint or a 64 oz of da bomb  theyre also
doing a freestyle rap about their execution

on chevy suburban

they get in when the squak of police walkietalkies clicks

				big black
			its the man

what follows is a horrifying display of firepower  all the
maumaus bodies are doing the bonnie and clyde sonny
corleone dance of death as bullets tear into them and the
suburban  not one of them is able to get a shot off  the
shooting stops  the twitching stops  alls quiet  116th
black comes out with his hands up

				116th black
			dont shoot  dont shoot  ive
			been held hostage  they made me
			part of them against my own free
			will  dont shoot

the cops quickly pounce on 116th black

				116th black contd
			im white  im white  look at me
			im white

int delacroixs office

delacroix is on the floor when the doorknob turns  its
sloan and she has a gun in one hand and her inhaler in the
other  shes wheezing like mad

				sloan
			get up and put that tape in

										 133


she points the gun at his head

				sloan contd
			do what i say

delacroix takes the cassette tape off his desk and puts it
in the 34 inch desk

				sloan contd
			dont make me have to use this

				delacroix
			i didnt think this was in your
			studies at nyu

delacroix hits the play button

on screen

images  history  visuals  sloan has put together a tape
of the worst most racist stereotypical images from cinema
and tv over the last 100 years  with these images theres
also a laughtrack

				sloan
			watch this  this is what you
			contributed to  because of you
			manray is dead  mu brothers dead
			its all because of you

delacroix cant watch the monitor

				delacroix
			im sorry  i didnt know anyone
			would get hurt  im sorry please
			give me that gun before you hurt
			yourself  give me the gun

he reaches for it  boom  sloan screams

				sloan
			i told you but you wouldnt listen
			you never listened to me

				delacroix
			give me the gun

she reluctantly hands it to him

				delacroix contd
			go get out of here  go home

sloan runs out  delacroix slumps to the floor wipes her
fingerprints off the revolver

										 134


on delacroix

he looks at the monitor the tape still playing

				delacroix vo contd
			as i bled to death as my very
			precious life oozed out of me all i
			could think of was that i never
			made my father proud  my mother
			didnt count

on screen

we see step n fetchit mantan moreland and willie best

				delacroix vo contd
			everything i did no matter how
			great or small was always
			extraordinary to her  with daddy
			it was a different ball game  he
			never saw me  pierre delacroix

on delacroix

a pool of blood has formed around his dying body

				delacroix vo contd
			now it was time to buy the farm
			for me to meet my maker  goodbye
			cousins and please tune in next
			week for the best of mantan  the
			new millennium minstrel show

on screen

we see mantan in blackface doing his buckdance

close on delacroix

he looks at mantan

				delacroix contd
			for the love of joseph and mary
			what have i done  my god what
			have i done

delacroix slumps over dead

								  cut to

										 135


archival footage of malcolm x

				malcolm x
			youve been had  youve been took
			youve been led astray  run amok
			youve been bamboozled

								  fade to black

the end

end credits