ghostbusters ii

							by
						harold ramis
							and
						dan aykroyd

					 september 29 1988
				last revised feburary 27 1989


ext  manhattan island  day

a high aerial shot of the island features the statue of liberty
prominently in the foreground then travels across the harbor over the
battery and lower manhattan to greenwich village

ext  east 77th street  day

a car is being hoisted up by a municipal tow truck while its owner is
having a terrible screaming arguement with a parking enforcement officer
dana barrett comes home pushing a baby buggy struggling with two full
bags of groceries and trying to dig her keys out of her purse the

building superintendent frank sees her struggling but pretends not to
notice

						dana
				 exasperated
			frank do you think you could give me a hand
			with these bags

						frank
			im not a doorman miss barrett  im a
			building superintendent

						dana
			youre also a human being frank

						frank
				 reluctantly going to help
			okay okay  its not my job but what the
			hell  ill do you a favor  he takes the
			grocery bags from her

						dana
				 setting the wheel brakes on
				 the buggy
			thank you frank  ill get the hang of this
			eventually

she continues digging in her purse while frank leans over the buggy and
makes funny faces at the baby oscar a very cute ninemonth old boy

						frank
				 to the baby
			hiya oscar  what do you say slugger

						frank
				 to dana
			thats a goodlooking kid you got there ms
			barrett

						dana
				 finding her keys
			thank you frank  oh are you ever going to
			fix the radiator in my bedroom  i asked you
			last week

						frank
			didnt i do it

baby buggy

it starts to vibrate as if shaken by an unseen hand

ext  east 77th street  baby  day

he gurgles with delight at the movement

ext  east 77th street  dana and frank  day

neither of them notice the movement of the carriage

						dana
			no you didnt frank

						frank
			okay thats no problem

						dana
			thats exactly what you said last week

buggy wheels

the brakes unlock themselves

dana

she reaches for the handlebar of the buggy but the buggy rolls forward
just out of her reach and stops  surprised by the movement she reaches
for the handlebar again but this time the buggy rolls away even
further  alarmed now dana hurries after it but the buggy keeps
rolling down the street at ever increasing speed

sidewalk

dana chases the buggy down the street shouting to passing pedestrians
for help but every time someone reaches out to stop it the buggy
swerves and continues unchecked

intersection

cars trucks and buses speed by in both directions as the buggy races
toward the corner

dana

she puts her head down and sprints after the buggy like an olympian

ext  east 77th street  intersection  day

a city bus is on a collision course with the speeding baby buggy

buggy

it careens toward the corner

ext  east 77th street  baby  day

its eyes are wide open with excitement

ext  east 77th street  intersection  day

bus and buggy are closing fast as the buggy bounces over the curb and
into the crosswalk

bus

the bus driver reacts in helpless horror as he sees the buggy enter the
intersection at high speed

buggy

it comes to a dead stop right in the middle of the street  the bus
continues missing the buggy by inches

intersection

cars and trucks swerve and hit their brakes as dana runs into the
intersection and snatches up the baby  she hugs it close deeply
relieved then looks at the buggy with the dawning awareness that the
supernatural has reentered her life

												 cut to

ext  upper west side  new york city street  ghostbusters logo  day

theme music kicks in strongly as we see the familiar no ghosts symbol
and pull back to reveal that its painted on the side of ecto1 the
ghostbusters emergency vehicle which is speeding up broadway on the
upper west side  ray stantz is driving and winston zeddemore is riding
shotgun

ext  west 77th street  day  moments later

the ectomobile pulls up in front of a carefullyrestored brownstone
stantz and winston wearing their official ghostbuster uniforms jump
out of the old ambulance shoulder their proton packs and enter the
house

int  brownstone  day  continuous action

a woman greets them and leads them through the expensivelyfurnished
house

						stantz
				 all business
			how many of them are there maam

						woman
			fourteen  theyre in the back  i hope you can
			handle them  its been like a nightmare

						winston
			how big are they

she holds her hand out indicating about four feet

						winston
				 resolute
			well do our best maam

						woman
			theyre right out here

she leads them to a set of french doors that open into another room
stantz and winston pause to make final adjustments to their equipment

						stantz
			ready

						winston
			im ready

						stantz
			then lets do it

he pushes through the french doors and they step into the room

int  brownstone  day  continuous action

they are immediately attacked by fourteen or fifteen screaming kids
between the ages of seven and ten

						kids
				 disappointed
			ghostbusters  boooo

tables are set with party favors ice cream and birthday cake and the
room is strewn with discarded toys and games  a couple of weary parents
sink onto lawn chairs as stantz and winston take over the party

						winston
				 trying his best
			how you doin kids

						little boy
				 nasty
			i though we were having heman

						stantz
			heman couldnt make it today  thats why
			were here

						boy
			my dad says youre full of crap

						stantz
				 stopped cold
			well a lot of people have trouble believing
			in the paranormal

						boy
			no he just says youre full of crap and thats
			why you went out of business

he kicks stantz in the leg  stantz grabs him by the shirtfront

						stantz
				 low and menacing
			im watching you
				 to winston
			song

winston switches on a tiny tape recorder which starts playing the
ghostbusters theme song stantz and winston start singing

						stantz and winston
			theres something wrong in the neighborhood
			who you gonna call

						kids
				 all together
			heman

												 cut to

ext west 77th street  day later

stantz and winston wearily load their equipment into the ectomobile

						winston
			thats it ray  ive had it  no more parties
			im tired of taking abuse from overprivileged
			nineyearolds

						stantz
			come on winston  we cant quit now  the
			holidays are coming up  its our best season

they get in the car

int  ecto1  day continuous action

stantz tries to start the car but the engine wont turn over

						winston
			give it up ray  youre living in the past
			ghostbusters doesnt exist anymore  in a year
			these kids wont even remember who we are

						stantz
				 tries to start the car again
			ungrateful little yuppie larvae  after all we
			did for this city

						winston
			yeah what did we do ray  the last real job
			we had we bubbled up a hundred foot marshmallow
			man and blew the top three floors off an uptown
			highrise

						stantz
			yeah but what a ride  you cant make a
			hamburger without chopping up a cow

he turns the key again the enging turns over then starts grinding and
clunking disastrously chewing up vital parts and dropping twisted bits
of metal onto the pavement  finally with a blast of black sooty
exhaust from the tailpipe ecto1 shudders and dies  frustrated stantz
bangs his head lightly on the steering wheel

												 cut to

int  wkrrtv studio reception area  day later

a bank of monitors in the lobby show the program now running on wkrr
channel 10 in new york we push in on one of the monitors as a title
card and logo come up accompanied by some eerie synthesizer music and
we return to the show in progress world of the psychic with dr peter
venkman  there is a video dissolve to a standard talk show set and
sitting there is our host peter venkman the renowned and somewhat
infamous exghostbuster

venkman

he turns to camera and talks to his viewers in a suavely engaging tone
understated and intimate

						venkman
			hi welcome back to the world of the psychic
			im peter venkman and im chatting with my guest
			author lecturer and of course psychic milton
			anglund
				 to his guest
			milt your new book is called the end of the
			world  isnt that kind of like writing about
			gum disease  yes it could happen but do you
			think anybody wants to read a book about it

						milton
			well i think its important for people to know
			that the world is in danger

						venkman
			okay so can you tell us when its going to
			happen or do we have to buy the book

						milton
			i predict that the world will end at the
			stroke of midnight on new years eve

						venkman
			this year  thats cutting it a little close
			isnt it  i mean just from a sales point of
			view the book just came out right  so youre
			not even looking at the paperback release for
			maybe a year  and its going to be at least
			another year after that if the thing has
			movieoftheweek or miniseries potential
			you would have been better off predicting 1992
			or even 94 just to be safe

						milton
				 irritated
			this is not just some moneymaking scheme  i
			didnt just make up the date  i have a strong
			psychic belief that the world will end on new
			years eve

						venkman
				 placating
			well for your sake i hope youre right  but
			i think my other guest may disagree with you
			elaine you had another date in mind

the camera reveals elaine an attractive aggressive new jersey
housewife sitting on the other side of venkman

						elaine
			according to my sources the world will end
			on february 14 in the year 2016

						venkman
			valentines day  thats got to be a bummer
			where did you get that date elaine

						elaine
			i received this information from an alien  i
			was at the paramus holiday inn i was having
			a drink in the bar when he approached me and
			started talking  then he must have used some
			sort of ray or a mind control device because
			he made me follow him to his room and thats
			where he told me about the end of the world

						venkman
			your alien had a room in the holiday inn

						elaine
			it may have been a room on the spacecraft made
			up to look like a room in the holiday inn  i
			cant be sure peter

						venkman
				 humoring her
			no you cant and i think thats the whole
			problem with aliens you just cant trust them
			you may get some nice ones occasionally like
			starman or et but most of them turn out to
			be some kind of lizard  anyway were just
			about out of time
				 does his wrapup right to
				 the camera
			next week on world of the psychic hairless
			pets
				 holds up a hairless cat
			until then this is peter venkman saying 
				 puts a finger to his temple
				 and sends out a though to his
				 viewers
			 good night

												 cut to

int tv studio  corridor  day later

venkman comes out of the studio squabbling with his producer norman a
wellmeaning young incompetent

						venkman
			where do you find these people  i thought
			we were having the telekinetic guy who bends
			the spoons

						norman
			a lot of the better psychics wont come on the
			show  they think youre too skeptical

						venkman
			skeptical  norman im a pushover  i think
			professional wrestling is real

there is a small commotion down the hall as two plainclothes cops come
out of the next studio followed by a group of mayoral assistants

						venkman
				 to norman
			whats all this

						norman
			they just interviewed the mayor on cityline

						venkman
			the mayor  hes a friend of mine

venkman starts down the hall as the mayor and his principal aide jack
hardemeyer come walking out of the studio

						venkman
				 calling to the mayor
			lenny

the mayor sees venkman blanches and hurries off pretending not to know
him

						venkman
				 starts to follow him
			lenny  its pete venkman

the plainclothesmen cut venkman off and hardemeyer puts a heavy hand
against venkmans chest

						hardemeyer
				 snide
			can i help you

						venkman
				 dangerous
			yeah you can get your hand off my chest

hardemeyer smiles and drops his hand

						hardemeyer
			im jack hardemeyer  im the mayors assistant
			what can i do for you

						venkman
			im an old friend of the mayors  i just
			want to say hello to him

						hardemeyer
				 scornful
			i know who you are doctor venkman  busting
			any ghosts lately

						venkman
			no thats what i want to talk to the mayor
			about  we did a little job for the city a
			while back and we ended up getting sued
			screwed and tattooed by deskworms like you

						hardemeyer
				 bristling
			look you stay away from the mayor  next fall
			barring a disaster hes going to be elected
			governor of this state and the last thing we
			need is for him to be associated with twobit
			frauds and publicity hounds like you and your
			friends  you read me

hardemeyer walks off with the two cops

						venkman
			okay i get it  but i want you to tell lenny
			that because of you im not voting for him

												 cut to

ext manhattan museum of art  day

the broad front steps of the museum are crowded with tourists and
visitors  dana arrives carrying a portfolio and artists tackle box and
enters the museum

int museum  restoration studio  day later

we are fullframe on a largerthanlife fullfigure portrait of vigo
the carpathian a demented and sadistic 16th century despot with an
incredibly powerful evil presence  then we pull back to reveal the
studio which is a large open space on the top floor of the museum lit
by large skylights in the ceiling  working on the vigo painting is
janosz poha a youngish art historian and painter the head of the
department quirky intense and somewhat creepy  janosz is staring
longingly across the room at dana

dana

she is carefully cleaning a 19th century landscape painting still
preoccupied by the extraordinary nearaccident with the buggy  janosz
watches her for a moment then comes up behind her and looks over her
shoulder

						janosz
				 with an east european accent
			still working on the turner

dana jumps startled by the intrusion

						dana
			oh yes i got in a little late this morning
			janosz

						janosz
			you know you are really doing very good work
			here  i think soon you may be ready to assist
			me in some of the more important restorations

						dana
			thank you janosz  ive learned a lot here
			but now that my babys a little older i was
			hoping to rejoin the orchestra

vigo painting

at the mention of danas baby the figure of vigo miraculously turns his
head and looks at dana

janosz and dana

neither of them notice the movement in the painting

						janosz
				 disappointed
			well be very sorry to lose you  perhaps i
			could take you to lunch today

						dana
			actually im not eating lunch today  i have
			an appointment
				 looks at her watch
			in fact id better go

she starts gathering up her things

						janosz
			every day i ask you and every day youve got
			something else to do  do i have bad breath
			or something

						dana
				 trying to brush him off
			im sorry  perhaps some other time

						janosz
			okay ill take a raincheck on that

janosz smiles at her as she exits then goes back to his easel

						janosz
				 to himself
			i think she likes me

he switches on an english language tape and starts practicing the
phrases as he resumes working

												 cut to

ext university  day

dana barrett crosses the quad and enters a modern building  a sign
identifies it as the institute for advanced theoretical research

int university  day a little later

dana is explaining the buggy incident to egon spengler the soberly
intellectual technowizard and former ghostbuster as he conducts an
experiment assisted by a research team of graduate students all of whom
are japanese chinese or korean  the device he is testing is a black
box about the size of a sony watchman with both digital and graphic
displays

						dana
			 and then the buggy just suddenly stopped
			dead in the middle of the street

						spengler

			did anyone else see this happen

						dana
			hundreds of people  believe me i didnt
			imagine this

						spengler
			im not saying you did  in science we always
			look for the simplest explanation

an assistant interrupts

						assistant
			were ready dr spengler

						spengler
				 to the assistant
			well start with the negative calibration

he picks up the device and prepares to test it

						dana
				 curious
			what are you working on egon

						spengler
			im trying to determine whether human
			emotional states have a measurable effect on
			the psychomagnetheric energy field  its a
			theory ray and i were working on when we had
			to dissolve ghostbusters

an assistant draws a curtain revealing a large picture window actually
a twoway mirror that looks into a small waiting room  inside the
waiting room they can see but not hear a youngish couple having a heated
arguement

						spengler
				 to dana
			they think theyre here for marriage
			counseling  weve kept them waiting for two
			hours and weve been gradually increasing the
			temperature in the room
				 checking a heat sensor
			its up to 95 degrees at the moment  now my
			assistant is going to enter and ask them if
			theyd mind waiting another halfhour

as spengler dana and the research team watch the assistant enters the
waiting room and tells the couple about the new delay  they explode
with anger both at him and each other while spengler monitors them
through the glass  after recording his readings he returns to his
assistant

						spengler
			well do the happiness index next
				 to dana
			id like to bring ray in on your case if
			its all right with you

						dana
			okay whatever you think  but not venkman

						spengler
			oh no

						dana
				 affectedly casual
			do you ever see him

						spengler
			occasionally

						dana
			how is he these days

						spengler
			venkman  i think he was borderline for a
			while there  then he crossed the border

						dana
			does he ever mention me

						spengler
			no  not that i can recall

they move to another twoway mirror through which they can see a lovely
little girl playing with a wonderful array of toys

						dana
				 slightly disappointed
			well we didnt part on very good terms and
			we sort of lost track of each other when i
			got married

the assistant interrupts again

						assistant
			were ready for the affection test

						spengler
				 to the assistant
			good  send in the puppy

						dana
				 continuing
			i thought of calling him after my marriage
			ended but   anyway i appreciate youre
			doing this egon

they watch as another assistant enters the playroom with an adorable
cocker spaniel puppy and gives it to the little girl  spengler monitors
her as she jumps for joy and hugs the little dog

						dana
				 handing him a card
			this is my address and telephone number
			will you call me

						spengler
			certainly

						dana
			egon id rather you didnt mention any of
			this to peter if you dont mind

						spengler
			i wont

						dana
			thank you

she shakes his hand and exits

						spengler
				 to his assistant
			now lets see how she reacts when we take
			away the puppy

												 cut to

ext rays occult book store  day later

its a small basement shop located on a quaint commercial block in
greenwich village  the window is crowded with occult artifacts and old
books full of arcane metaphysical lore  the telephone rings

						stantz
				 vo answering the phone
			rays occult

int rays occult books  continuous

the shelves are jammed floor to ceiling with books on the paranormal
ray sits on a barstool behind the counter wearing an old cardigan
sweater over a tshirt  he has on a pair of reading glasses and chews
on a battered reeking pipe  as he talks on the phone he prepares a cup
of herb tea for spengler who is thumbing through an arcane text

						stantz
				 on the phone
			yeah  mmhmm  what do you need  what
			have i got  ive got alchemy astrology
			apparitions bundu magic men demon
			intercession ufo abductions psychic
			surgery stigmata modern miracles pixie
			sightings golden geese geists ghosts ive
			got it all  what are you looking for 
			dont have any  try the stockyards

he hangs up

						spengler
			who was that

						stantz
			some crank  looking for goat hooves  come
			up with anything

						spengler
				 referring to the book
			this ones interesting  berlin 1939 a
			flower cart took off by itself and rolled
			approximately half a kilometer over level
			ground  three hundred eyewitnesses

						stantz
			you might want to check those duke university
			mean averaging studies on controlled
			psychokinesis

						spengler
				 going to the stacks
			good idea

the bones hanging over the door rattle as venkman enters the shop

						venkman
			oh hello perhaps you could help me  im
			looking for an aerosol love potion i could
			spray on a certain penthouse pet that would
			make her unconditionally submit to an unusual
			personal request

						stantz
			oh hiya pete

						venkman
			so no goat hooves huh

						stantz
				 strung
			i knew that voice sounded familiar  whats
			up  hows it going

						venkman
			nowhere  fast  why dont you lock up and
			buy me a sub

						stantz
				 slightly evasive
			uh i cant  im kind of working on something

spengler steps out of the stacks

						venkman
			egon

						spengler
			hello venkman

						venkman
			howve you been  hows teaching  i bet
			those science chicks really dig that big
			cranium of yours huh

						spengler
			i think theyre more interested in my
			epididymis

						venkman
			i dont even want to know where that is

venkman steps behind the counter and takes a beer from rays minifridge

						stantz
			oh your book came in venkman  magical
			paths to fortune and power

he hands venkman the book

						venkman
			great
				 reading the contents
			so what are you guys working on

						stantz
			oh just checking something for an old friend

						venkman
			who

						stantz
				 at a loss
			who  just  someone we know

						venkman
			oh ray 

he grabs stantz by both ears and pulls up

						venkman
			who  who  who

						stantz
			aaah  nobody  i cant tell you

						venkman
			who ray

						stantz
				 giving in
			dana  dana barrett

venkman lets go of his ears and smiles  spengler looks at stantz and
shakes his head

												 cut to

int danas apartment  day later

the apartment is old and creatively furnished with a comfortable mix of
modern and traditional pieces  maria a young hispanic woman who does
day care for dana is feeding the baby in the kitchen when the doorbell
rings

												 cut to

dana enters from the bedroom and crosses to the front door  she opens
it and admits ray and egon

						dana
				 hugging ray
			hi ray  its good to see you  thanks for
			coming

						stantz
			no problem  always glad to help  and hug

						dana
				 to spengler
			hi egon

she shakes his hand and is about to close the door when venkman appears
in the doorway

						venkman
			hi dana

dana is caught completely off guard by venkmans surprise appearance

						venkman
			i knew youd come crawling back to me

she regards him coolly as always amused and amazed at his
presumptuousness

						dana
			hello peter

						venkman
				 to dana
			you know dana im very very hurt that you
			didnt call me first  im still into all
			this stuff you know  havent you ever seen
			my show

						dana
			i have  thats why i didnt call you first

						venkman
			i can see that youre still very bitter about
			us but in the interest of science im going
			to give it my best shot  lets go to work
			boys

stantz and spengler begin a comprehensive parapsychological workup on
the baby and the immediate physical environment

venkman and dana

venkman starts nosing around the apartment  dana follows him

						venkman
			so what happened to mr right  i hear he
			ditched you and the kid and moved to europe

						dana
			he didnt ditch me  we had some problems
			he got a good offer from an orchestra in
			england and he took it

						venkman
			he ditched you  you shouldve married me
			you know

						dana
			you never asked me and every time i brought
			it up youd get drowsy and fall asleep

						venkman
			men are very sensitive you know  we need to
			feel loved and desired too

						dana
			well when you started introducing me as the
			old ball and chain thats when i left

						venkman
			i may have a few personal problems but one thing
			i am is a total professional

he leaves her and crosses to spengler

spengler

hes taking a complete set of body and head measurements of the baby
with a tape measure and calipers

						venkman
			what are you going to do egon  knit him a
			snowsuit

spengler ignores the remark and hands venkman a specimen jar

						spengler
			id like to have a stool specimen

						venkman
			yeah you would  is that for personal or
			professional reasons

						venkman
				 picking up the baby
			okay kid  up you go

he starts clowning with the baby holding him over his head and pressing
his nose into the babys belly pretending that the baby is attacking
him

						venkman
			help  please somebody help me  get him off
			quickly  hes gone completely berserk

dana is amused and somewhat disarmed by venkmans rapport with the baby

						dana
			what do you think

						venkman
			theres no doubt about it  hes got his
			fathers looks  the kid is ugly  extremely
			ugly  and smelly
				 resumes playing with the baby
			you stink  its just horrible  you are the
			stinkiest baby i ever smelled
				 to dana
			whats his name

						dana
			his name is oscar

						venkman
			oscar  you poor kid

						dana
				 losing patience
			peter this is serious  i need to know if you
			think theres anything unusual about him

						venkman
			unusual
				 holds up the baby and
				 scrutinizes him
			i dont know  i havent had a lot of
			experience with babies

he looks at the baby pulling his feet up trying to get the sleeper
off

						dana
				 taking the specimen jar
			ill do it

						venkman
			ill supervise

int danas apartment  nursery  day continuous action

venkman enters and finds stantz monitoring the room

						venkman
				 to stantz
			well holmes what do you think

						stantz
			its an interesting one pete  if anything
			was going on its totally subdued now

spengler enters

						venkman
				 to spengler
			what now brainiac

						spengler
			i think we should see if we can find
			anything abnormal on the street

						venkman
			finding something abnormal on the street
			shouldnt be too hard

												 cut to

ext east 77th street  day later

dana walks down the street with venkman retracing the path of the
runaway buggy  spengler and stantz follow monitoring pke valences from
the pavement and the buildings

						venkman
				 to dana nostalgic
			brings back a lot of sweet memories doesnt
			it
				 pointing out familiar
				 neighborhood sights
			theres our old cash machine  and the dry
			cleaners we used to go to  and the old
			video store
				 he wipes away an imaginary
				 tear
			we really had some good times didnt we

						dana
			we definitely had a moment or two

dana stops at the intersection and points to the middle of the street

						dana
			thats where the buggy stopped

						venkman
			okay lets take a look

venkman walks right out into the middle of the street completely
oblivious to the cars honking and whizzing past him and starts motioning
like a traffic cop bringing traffic to a standstill  then he signals
for dana stantz and spengler to join him in the middle of the street

						stantz
				 reading the pke meter
			is this the spot

						dana
			a little to the left  right there  thats
			where it stopped

stantz reads the pke meter

						stantz
			nothing  not a trace

						spengler
			why dont we try the gigameter

						venkman
			whats that

						stantz
			egon and i have been working on a gauge to
			measure psychomagnetheric energy in gevs 
			giga electron volts

						spengler
			thats a thousand million electron volts

						venkman
			i knew that

spengler switches on the gigameter the device he was testing in the
lab and passes it over the spot on the street where the buggy stopped
the indicator goes right into the red zone and the device starts clicking
wildly

						stantz
			i think we hit the honeypot boys  theres
			something brewing under the street

						dana
				 worried to venkman
			peter do you think maybe i have some genetic
			problem or something that makes me vulnerable
			to these supernatural things

						venkman
			you mean like the time you got possessed and
			turned into a monster terror dog  no not
			a chance  total coincidence
				 to stantz and spengler
			am i right

stantz and spengler look at him skeptically not convinced by the
coincidence theory

												 cut to

int  manhattan museum of art  late afternoon

the museum has just closed for the day and the last of the visitors and
employees are leaving

int  restoration studio  same time

janosz is working late on the painting of vigo

vigo painting

unnoticed by janosz the eyes of vigo start to glow

janosz

he touches his brush to the canvas and a powerful current of red
crackling energy surges through the brush and courses through his body
driving him to his knees

painting

the figure of vigo comes to life turns toward janosz and gestures
dramatically at him  then he speaks to janosz in a commanding voice

						vigo
			i vigo the scourge of carpathia the
			sorrow of moldavia command you

						janosz
				 in agony
			command me lord

						vigo
			on a mountain of skulls in a castle of pain
			i sat on a throne of blood  what was will
			be what is will be no more  now is the
			season of evil  find me a child that i might
			live again

bolts of redhot energy shoot from the eyes of vigo into janoszs eyes
he screams and falls to his knees

												 cut to

ext coffee shop  east 77th street  night

venkman and stantz come out with small boxes containing coffee
sandwiches and danish and start walking up the street

						venkman
			i love this  were onto something really
			big  i can smell it ray  were going to
			make some headlines with this one

						stantz
			hey hey hey stresshound  are you nuts
			if anybody found out about this wed be in
			serious trouble  the judge couldnt have
			been clearer  no ghostbusting

						venkman
			relax  were going to keep this whole thing
			nice and quiet low key no profile

ext  east 77th street  night continuous action

spengler wearing a hardhat is jackhammering a hole in the middle of the
street  safety cones and reflectors have been set up and a small area is
lit by strong work lights

police car

it turns onto east 77th street cruises slowly up to the makeshift
worksite and stops  the noise of the jackhammer is so loud spengler
doesnt notice the police car and the two cops inside looking at them
finally he looks up sees the police car and freezes

						first cop
			how ya doing

						spengler
				 reeking with guilt
			fine  its cutting fine now

						first cop
				 curious
			why are you cutting

						spengler
				 looking for one of the
				 others
			why are we cutting  uh  boss

venkman and stantz arrive just in time wearing con ed hardhats doing a
good imitation of a consolidated edison repairman

						first cop
			what are you doing here

						venkman
				 belligerent
			what the hells it look like were doing
			were bustin out asses over here cause
			some douchebag downtown aint got nothin
			better to do than make idiots like us work
			late on a friday night right
				 looks to spengler for
				 agreement

						spengler
				 with a right on fist
			yo

the cops seem satisfied by the explanation

						first cop
			okay boys take it easy

they drive off  spengler breathes a great sigh of relief and starts
rubbing his sore shoulders

						spengler
			you were supposed to help me with this

						venkman
			you need the exercise

stantz resumes jackhammering while venkman and spengler clear the
rubble from the hole  suddenly he hits metal  they clear away
generations of paving material revealing an ornate iron manhole cover
the manhole cover bears a strange logo and the letters nyprr

						stantz
				 examing it
			nyprr  what the hell    help me lift
			this

they prey off the iron cover with crowbars uncovering a very dark and
very deep abyss

						stantz
				 shining a flashlight into
				 the hole
			wow  its an old airshaft  it just goes
			forever

spengler leans in with the gigameter which is reading even higher now

						spengler
			very intense  we need a deeper reading
			somebody has to go down there

venkman and spengler both look at ray

						stantz
			thanks boys

they snap stantz into a harness and lower him into the hole on a strong
cable attached to a winch  ray calls out orders to them as he descends
deeper and deeper

						stantz os
				 his voice echoing in the
				 airshaft
			keep going  more  more 

int  hole  night continuous action

stantz rappels off the sides of the airshaft as he continues his descent
in total darkness

						stantz
				 using a radio now
			lower  lower 
				 to himself
			gee this really is deep

suddenly his feet kick thin air as he gets to the bottom of the airshaft
and swings free in some kind of tunnel

						stantz
				 shouts
			hold it  steady

he pulls a powerful flashlight from his utility belt and shines it into
the tunnel below

int  van horne station  stantzs pov  night

he is suspended near the top of a beautifully preserved chamber with
rounded polished tile walls ardorned with intricate colorfully enameled
art nouveau mosaics  a finely inlaid sign identifies it as van horne
station

stantz

he pans the walls with his flashlight admiring the excellent tilework
and speaks quietly to venkman and spengler over his walkietalkie

						stantz
				 reverently
			this is it boys the end of the line  van
			horne station  the old new york pneumatic
			its still here

ext  east 77th street  hole  night continuous action

venkman has no idea what hes talking about

						spengler
				 explaining
			the new york pneumatic railway  it was an
			experimental subway system  fanforced
			airtrains built around 1870

						stantz
				 over the walkietalkie
			this is about as deep as you can go under
			manhattan without digging your own hole

						spengler
				 to stantz
			whats the reading

int  van horne station  night continuous action

stantz shines his flashlight on the meter and whistles at the extremely
high reading

						stantz
				 on the radio
			off the top of the scale  this place is
			really hot  lower me to the floor

as venkman and spengler feed him some more cable he pans his flashlight
down the wall of the station then onto the floor

						stantz
				 shouts
			hold it  stop  whoa

int van horne station  stantzs pov  floor  night

below him is a river of bubbling seething glowing slime a veritable
torrent of disgusting ooze

as he stares into the foul effluent we become aware of the strangely
amplified and magnified sounds of great engines throbbing and pulsing in
the bowels of the city of water rushing through pipes steam hissing
through ducts the muffled rumble of the subway and the roar of traffic
and mixed with it all the unmistakable sounds of human conflict and pain
 voices shouting in anger screaming in fear groaning in pain a sad
and eerie symphony

int  van horne station  stantz  night

						stantz
				 ranting on the radio
			oh my god  its a seething bubbling
			psychic cess  interlocked tubes of plasm
			crackling with negative gevs  its glowing
			and moving  its  its a river of slime

stantz

he dangles from the end of the cable holding his feet up as high as he
can  he unhooks a device from his utility belt and pulls the trigger on
it shooting out a long telescoping fishingpole with a scoop on the end
reaching down he scoops up a sample of the slime and starts retracting
the pole

slime

suddenly a grotesque arm with a long skeletal fingers reaches up out of
the slime and snatches at stantzs dangling feet  he jerks his legs up
as several more arms poke up out of the slime and reach for him

						stantz
				 on the radio
			haul me up venkman  now

ext  east 77th street  hole  night continuous action

venkman and spengler start hauling in the cable as a con ed supervisors
car drives up and behind it the same police car they saw earlier  a
burly supervisor gets out and crosses toward them followed by the two
cops

						supervisor
				 no nonsense
			okay whats the story here

venkman and spengler stop pulling up the cable and venkman tries the
belligerent worker ploy again only this time hes wearing a nynex
hardhat

						venkman
			what i got time for this  we got three
			thousand phones out in the village and about
			eight million miles of cable to check

						supervisor
				 not buying it
			the phone lines are over there
				 points to the curb

venkman pops spengler on the head

						venkman
			i told ya

stantz can be heard ranting over venkmans walkietalkie

						stantz os
				 filtered
			help  help  pull me up  its alive  its
			eating my boots

venkman switches off the walkietalkie

						first cop
			you aint with con ed or the phone company
			we checked  tell me another one

venkman stares at the cop for a long moment

						venkman
			gas leak

int  van horne station  same time

stantz is hanging there looking down into the shaft at the slime which
is now bubbling up the shaft after him

						stantz
				 shouting
			get me out of here

desperate now he kicks wildly and knocks loose a section of an old
rusting conduit

int  van horne station  bottom of the shaft

the conduit falls on a heavy electrical transmission line ripping
through the cable with a shower of sparks

ext  east 77th street  hole  continuous action

venkman spengler the cops and the supervisor all react to a bright
flash deep down in the hole and a shout from stantz

ext  east 77th street  street  night

one by one all the streetlights go out then the lights on all the
buildings along east 77th street then the whole neighborhood blacks
out and finally the entire city is plunged into darkness

						stantz os
			sorry

int dana barretts apartment  night same time

she walks around in the dark lighting candles and placing them all over
the living room  then she finds a transistor radio and turns it on for
information about the blackout  she listens to a special news report
for a moment then has a compelling impulse to go check on the baby
she crosses to the nursery carrying a candle and quietly opens the door
and looks in  suddenly the doorbell rings scaring her half to death
leaving the chain on the door she opens it a crack and sees janosz
standing in the hall eerily lit by a red emergency spot at the end of
the hallway  he looks slightly dazed and even creepier

						dana
				 surprised
			janosz

						janosz
			hello dana  i happened to be in the
			neighborhood and i thought id stop by to
			see if everythings all right with you 
			you know with the blackout and everything
			are you okay  is the baby all right

his affected concern is chilling  she is frightened but conceals it
from him

						dana
				 mechanically and cautiously
	were fine janosz

he tires to look around her into the apartment

						janosz
			do you need anything  you want me to come
			in

						dana
			no everythings fine  honestly  thanks
			anyway

						janosz
			okay just thought id check  good night
			dana  sleep well  dont let the bedbugs
			bite you

						dana
			good night janosz

she closes the door behind him and double locks it then stands there
staring into the candlelight alone and afraid

int  hallway of danas building  night continuous action

janosz stands there in semidarkness then his eyes light up like
headlights and he walks off down the hall

												 cut to

int  courtroom  witness stand  next day

the judge a rather sourlooking jurist of the old school calls the
court to order

						judge
			i want to make one thing very clear before
			we go any further  the law does not recognize
			the existence of ghosts and i dont believe
			in them either so i dont want to hear a
			lot of malarkey about goblins and spooks and
			demons  were going to stick to the facts
			in this case and save the ghost stories for
			the kiddies  understood

defense table

stantz leans over and whispers to spengler

						stantz
			seems like a pretty openminded guy huh

						spengler
			his nickname is the hammer

stantz and spengler are seated with their attorney louis tully lawyer
cpa and former demonic possession victim  louis is desperately paging
through a mountain of legal textbooks

						louis
				 nervous
			i think youre making a big mistake here
			fellas  i do mostly tax law and some probate
			stuff occasionally  i got my law degree at
			night school

						stantz
			thats all right  we got arrested at night

spectators gallery

venkman is talking to dana at the wooden rail in front of the gallery

						dana
			i wish i could stay  i feel personally
			responsible for you being here

						venkman
			you are personally responsible  if i can
			get conjugal rights will you visit me at
			sing sing

						dana
			please dont say that  you wont go to prison

						venkman
			dont worry about me  im like a cat

						dana
			you mean you cough up hairballs all over
			the rug

						venkman
			im el gato  i always land on my feet

						dana
				 sincerely
			good luck

						venkman
			thanks

she gives him a quick unexpected kiss and exits  venkman savors it for
a moment then goes back to the defense table

prosecution table

jack hardemeyer the mayors principal aide is goading the prosecutor
a very sober humorless woman in her late thirties

						hardemeyer
			how are you doing hon  just put these guys
			away fast and make sure they go away for a
			long long time

						prosecutor
			it shouldnt be hard with this list of charges

						hardemeyer
			good  very good  the mayor and future
			governor wont forget this

he smiles conspiratorially and makes a point of passing the defense table
on his way out of the courtroom

defense table

the ghostbusters look up as hardemeyer approaches

						hardemeyer
				 gloating
			nice going venkman  violating a judicial
			restraining order willful destruction of
			public property fraud malicious mischief
			 smooth move  see you in a couple years
			 at your first parole hearing

herdemeyer exits  louis looks devastated

						louis
			gee the whole citys against us  i think
			im going to be sick

spengler hands him a waste basket as the prosecutor calls her first
witness

int  courtroom  witness stand  day later

the con ed supervisor is testifying

						prosecutor
			mr fianella please look at exhibits a
			through f on the table over there  do you
			recognize that equipment

exhibit table

lying on the table are the basic tools of the ghostbusting trade three
proton packs and particle throwers a couple of ghost traps and various
meters and detection devices

						con ed
				 oc
			thats the stuff the cops found in their
			truck

witness stand

she continues

						prosecutor
			do you know what this equipment is used for

						con ed
				 shrugs
			i dont know  catching ghosts i guess

						prosecutor
				 to the judge
			may i remind the court that the defendants
			are under a judicial restraining order that
			specifically forbids them from performing
			services as paranormal investigators and
			eliminators

						judge
			so noted

						prosecutor
			now mr fianella can you identify the
			substance in the jar on the table marked
			exhibit f

prosecutor

she goes to the exhibit table and picks up a specimen jar containing the
slime sample stantz removed from the tunnel

						con ed
			i been working underground for con ed for
			27 years and i never saw anything like that
			in my life  we checked out that tunnel the
			next day and we didnt find nothing  if it
			was down there they must have put it there

defense table

venkman and spengler look at stantz

						stantz
				 defensively
			hey i didnt imagine it  there must have
			been ten thousand gallons of it down there

						spengler
			it may be ebbing and flowing from some tidal
			source

						louis
				 nervously
			should i say that

						spengler
			i doubt that theyd believe us

louis moans and goes back to his notes

												 wipe to

int  courtroom  witness stand  later

venkman himself is on the stand and louis is questioning him

						louis
			so like you were just trying to help out
			your old friend because she was scared and
			you didnt really mean to do anything bad
			and you really love the city and wont ever
			do anything like this again right

						prosecutor
			objection your honor  hes leading the
			witness

						judge
			the witness is leading him  sustained

						louis
			okay let me rephrase that question
				 to venkman
			didnt you once coach a basketball team for
			underprivileged children

						venkman
			yes i did  we were city champs

						prosecutor
			objection  irrelevant and immaterial

						judge
			sustained  mr tully do you have anything
			to ask this witness that may have some
			bearing on this case

						louis
				 to venkman
			do i

						venkman
			no i think youve helped them enough already

						louis
				 to the judge
			no i guess not
				 to the prosecutor
			your witness

the prosecutor rises and approaches the witness stand with relish

						prosecutor
			so dr venkman please explain to the court
			why it is you and your codefendants took it
			upon yourselves to dig a big hole in the
			middle of the street

						venkman
			seventyseventh and first avenue has so many
			holes already we didnt think anyone would
			notice

the gallery laughs and the judge gavels for order

						judge
			keep that up mister and ill find you in
			contempt

						venkman
			sorry your honor but when somebody sets
			me up like that i cant resist

						prosecutor
			ill ask you again dr venkman  why were
			you digging the hole  and please remember
			that youre under oath

						venkman
			i had my fingers crossed when they swore me
			in but im going to tell you the truth
			there are things in this world that go way
			beyond human understanding things that
			cant be explained and that most people dont
			want to know about anyway  thats where we
			come in

						prosecutor
			so what are you saying  that the world of
			the supernatural is your special province

						venkman
			no i guess im just saying that shit happens
			and somebody has to deal with it

the spectators in the gallery cheer and the judge gavels for order

												 wipe to

int  courtroom  later

the trial is nearing its end  the judge calls on louis to make his
summation

						judge
			does the counsel for the defense wish to
			make any final arguements

louis rises

						louis
			your honor may i approach the bench

						judge
				 impatient
			yes

louis crosses to the judges bench

						louis
				 to the judge
			can i have some of your water

						judge
			get on with it counselor

						louis
				 scared
			your honor ladies and gentlemen of the 
				 he remembers theres no
				 jury
			audience  i dont think its fair to call
			my clients frauds  okay the blackout was
			a big problem for everybody  i was stuck in
			an elevator for about three hours and i had
			to go to the bathroom the whole time but i
			dont blame them because once i turned into
			a dog and they helped me  thank you

he goes back to the defense table and sits down  stantz and spengler
hang their heads  venkman pats louis on the back

						spengler
				 to louis
			way to go  concise and to the point

judge

he stares at louis astonished at his summation

						judge
			thats it  thats all you have to say

						louis
			did i forget something

he searches through a disorderly pile of notes

						judge
			that was unquestionably the worst
			presentation of a case ive ever heard in a
			court of law  i ought to cite you for
			contempt and have you disbarred  as for
			your clients peter venkman raymond stantz
			and egon spengler on the charges of
			conspiracy fraud and the willful destruction
			of public property i find you guilty on all
			counts  i order you to pay fines in the
			amount of 25000 each and i sentence you to
			eighteen months in the city correctional
			facility at rykers island

stantz

he sees the activity in the jar

						stantz
			uhoh shes twitchin

the bench

the judge continues

						judge
			and on a more personal note let me go on
			record as saying that there is no place in
			decent society for fakes charlatans and
			tricksters like you who prey on the
			gullibility of innocent people  youre
			beneath the contempt of this court  and
			believe me if my hands were not tied by the
			unalterable fetters of the law a law which
			has become in my view far too permissive and
			inadequate in its standards of punishment
			i would invoke the tradition of our
			illustrious forebearers reach back to a
			sterner purer justice and have you burned
			at the stake

he hammers the bench with his gravel as the gallery erupts noisily  then
he feels a low rumbling tremor in the courtroom

specimen jar

the slime starts to pulse and swell pushing up the lid on the jar

defense table

stantz anticipates big trouble

						stantz
			under the table boys

the ghostbusters duck under the defense table

louis

he stands up and looks around fearfully

int  courtroom  ghost battle  day

everybody is silent now as the rumbling increases  all eyes turn to the
exhibit table  then suddenly all hell breaks loose as two fulltorso
apparitions explode out of the specimen jar

judge

he looks up in terror at the two huge apparitions looming above him and
recognizes them immediately

						judge
				 in horror
			oh my god  the scoleri brothers

scoleri brothers

big in life even bigger in death the ghostly scoleri brothers seem ten
feet tall  they are strapped into electric chairs and on their heads are
metal electrocution caps with live sparking electrical wires still
attached  twentyfive hundred volts of electricity shoot through their
bodies as they start to break free of the leather restraints trying to
get at the judge

judge

holding his gavel like a pitiful weapon he crawls over to the defense
table where venkman stantz and spengler are now crouched assessing the
spectral intruders

						judge
				 terrified
			youve got to do something

						venkman
			who are they

						judge
			theyre the scoleri brothers  i tried them
			for murder  they were electrocuted up at
			ossining in 48  now they want to kill me

						venkman
			maybe they just want to appeal

scoleri brothers

they break loose from the electric chairs then turn toward the defense
table and blast it with highvoltage fingerlightning

prosecutor

she sprints for the door pursued by one of the scoleri brothers

ghostbusters

they jump to safety behind the rail of the jury box pulling the judge
with them

						venkman
			these boys arent playing around

						judge
				 desperately
			youve got to stop them  please

						louis
				 thinking like a lawyer
			violating a judicial restraining order could
			expose my clients to serious criminal
			penalties  as their attorney id have to
			advise them against it

scoleri brothers

they start punching through the jury box

judge

he is just about hysterical with fear

						judge
			all right  all right  im recinding the
			order  case dismissed
				 he pounds his gavel on
				 the floor
			now do something

						stantz
			lets go to work boys

with that the ghostbusters leap over the rail of the jury box and dash
across the courtroom to the exhibit table where their proton packs were
being displayed as evidence  they strap them on hastily as the brothers
continue tearing up the seats looing for the judge

						venkman
				 slinging the pack onto
				 his back
			geez i forgot how heavy these things are

						stantz
				 grabbing other gear
			okay lets heat em up

they flip the power switches on their packs and draw their particle
throwers

						stantz
			all right throwers  set for full neutronas
			on stream

they switch on their throwers and turn to face the raging phantasms

scoleri brothers

they are just about to wipe out the judge when a loud shout distracts
them

						venkman
			hey  why dont you pick on someone your own
			size

the towering ghosts turn in a fury and raise their arms ready to shoot
lightning at their new adversaries

						stantz
				 to the others
			on my signal boys  open em up  now

they all pull their triggers and the wands explode with incredible
powerful streams of energy doing even more damage to the courtroom

						venkman
			spengs take the door  ray lets try and
			work them down and into the corner

working as a team they gradually confine the scoleri brothers with the
streams forcing them closer and closer to the traps ray has set out on
the floor

						stantz
			watch it  im coming under you pete

they circle around the two ghosts prodding them with the streams while
ducking the lightning bolts shooting from their fingers  finally ray
sees his chance and pops open the traps which emit inverted pyramids of
light energy

						stantz
			steady  watch your streams  easy now 
			venky bring him left  spengy pull him
			down  trapping  trapping  now

he stomps on a control pedal and the scoleri brothers are drawn into the
traps which snap shut

int  courtroom  traps  day

leds on the outer casing start flashing indicating the presence of a
ghost inside each trap

						venkman
				 checking the trap
			occupado

int  courtroom  judge  day after ghost battle

he sticks his head up slowly from behind the debris of his bench and
looks around in total amazement

louis

he crawls out from under a chair  reporters and spectators get back on
their feet and start buzzing about the incredible manifestation

prosecutor

shes lying on the floor attended to by the bailiff and the court clerk

						spengler
				 to the prosecutor
			brilliant summation

ghostbusters

they break into big smiles as photographers start snapping pictures of
them standing in the wrecked courtroom

						venkman
			case closed boys  were back in business

the spectators cheer and applaud

												 cut to

ext  firehouse  day

the old dilapidated ghostbusters logo comes crashing to the ground
dropped by a pair of workmen on a ladder and the new logo is hoisted
into place over the main entrance  its just like the original no
ghosts logo but in the new one the ghost in the red circle is holding
up two fingers  venkman enters the firehouse

int  bedroom set tv commercial  full screen video  night

a man and his wife are lying in bed reading  the man is played by louis
tully and janine melnitz the ghostbusters once and future receptionist
is playing his wife  they are both terrible actors  suddenly a ghost
actually a very bad puppet on a wire floats through the bedroom  janine
sees it and screams

						louis
			what is it honey

						janine
			its that darn ghost again  i dont know
			what to do anymore  he just wont leave us
			alone  i guess well just have to move

						louis
			dont worry  were not moving  he is

he picks up the phone

						janine
			who are you going to call

						louis
				 with a wink
			ghostbusters

as he starts to dial the camera pulls back to reveal the ghostbusters
standing in the bedroom  their acting isnt much better than louis and
janines

ghostbusters

stantz speaks directly to the camera

						stantz
			im ray 

						venkman
			im peter 

						spengler
			im egon 

						stantz
			and were the 

						all
				 together
			ghostbusters

						stantz
			thats right  ghostbusters  were back
			and were better than ever with twice the
			knowhow and twice the particlepower to
			deal with all your supernatural elimination
			needs

during his speech winston can be seen in the bg pretending to trap the
fake ghost

						stantz
			careful winston  hes a mean one
				 to camera
			and to celebrate our grand reopening were
			giving you twice the value with our special
			halfprice welcome back service plan

						venkman
			hold on ray  halfprice  have you gone
			crazy

						stantz
			i guess so pete because thats not all
			tell them what else weve got egon

spengler actually mouths everyone elses dialogue along with them
waiting for his cue

						spengler
			you mean the ghostbusters hot beverage
			thermal mugs and free balloons for the kids

he holds up a mug and a limp uninflated balloon

						stantz
			you bet

as stantz wraps it up supers appear at the bottom of the screen fully
bonded  fully licensed  se habla espanol

						stantz
				 to camera
			so dont wait another minute  make your
			supernatural problem our supernatural problem
			call now because were still 

						all
				 in unison mechanically
			 ready to believe you

												 cut to

int  jack hardemeyers office  day

hardemeyer is watching the ghostbusters commercial on a tv in his office
he bangs his fist on his desk and angrily switches off the tv

												 cut to

ext  firehouse  day later

the garage door opens and the new improved ectomobile comes roaring out
onto the street its ghostly siren moaning and wailing  louis comes
running out after it

												 cut to

int  firehouse  day

louis comes back into the garage bay and stops as he smells a foul odor
he sniffs around following the smell

						louis
			oh geez smells like somebody took a really
			big 

he freezes

int office area  louiss pov

slimer a spudlike green ghost is hovering over louiss desk scarfing
down louiss bag lunch  slimer looks up and sees louis

slimer and louis

they both scream and run off in opposite directions

slimer

he passes right through a wall and disappears

louis

he runs right into a wall recovers and exits in a hurry

						louis
				 screaming
			help  theres a thing

												 cut to

ext  central park reservoir  day later

runners of both sexes and all ages are huffing and puffing as they jog
along the track that circles the reservoir  one of the runners looks
behind him at the sound of approaching footfalls and screams

ghostly jogger

a ghost jogger is loping along at a pretty fair pace  other runners
stumble and run screaming into the park as he passes them  seemingly
oblivious to the effect hes having the ghost jogger puts two fingers to
his skeletal neck and checks his watch as if taking his pulse

ext clearing in park  day same time

venkman is sitting on a park bench near the jogging track reading the
newspaper eating a donut and drinking coffee from a styrofoam cup

stantz

hes sitting on a bench opposite venkmans casually watching the jogging
track

ghost jogger

he approaches the benches where the ghostbusters are waiting  as the
ghost jogger passes the benches stantz and venkman simultaneously hit
concealed control buttons  a ghost trap buried in the track throws up a
glowing inverted pyramid and catches the ghost jogger in midstride
stantz and venkman close the trap and capture the ghost jogger

						venkman
				 checking his watch
			you know he ran that last lap in under six
			minutes

						stantz
			if he wasnt dead hed be an olympic
			prospect

												 cut to

ext  jewelry store  day

the ghostbusters come out carrying smoking traps wearing cheap
dimestore santa claus hats

						stantz
				 to the client
			merry christmas

												 cut to

ext  fifth avenue  orrefors glass store  day

the ectomobile is parked at the curb and a curious crowd looks on as the
ghostbusters enter the store

int  orrefors glass store  continuous action

all the precious crystal is floating in the air several feet above the
glass shelves and display tables  stantz and venkman are talking to the
manager while winston and spengler set up an array of electronic devices
positioned in each corner of the store

on a signal from stantz spengler and winston switch on the devices which
throw lasertype beams around the perimeter of the store  the manager
watches in horror as all the glassware suddenly drops out of the air
smashes through the glass shelves and shatters on the display tables
there is a long pregnant pause

						stantz
				 to the manager
			so will that be cash or a check

												 cut to

int  museum  restoration studio  day late afternoon

everyone else has gone home  dana is cleaning her brushes and putting
her supplies away

vigo painting  continuous action

vigo turns his head and watches dana as she walks past the painting

dana

she stops vaguely aware of the movement and looks up curiously at the
painting  as she starts to walk on vigo looks at her again but dana
turns suddenly and catches the movement  frightened now she hastily
leaves the studio

int  firehouse  day

louis is lurking behind a pillar peeking out at the office area  we pan
down to the floor and see a foot pedal then pan along the cord to a
ghost trap sitting on louiss desk  hanging from strings over the desk
are several pieces of kentucky fried chicken

wall

slimer partially emerges and furtively sniffs the air then spots the
chicken bait  he licks his lips materializes completely and flies to
the chicken

louis

his eyes light up and he stomps the foot pedal

						louis
				 shouts
			gotcha

desk

the trap pops open and shoots out a powerful cone of energy  slimer
dodges it and escapes as a big section of the ceiling comes crashing down
on louiss desk

						louis
				 seeing the damage
			uhoh

he slinks off defeated

												 cut to

int  manhattan museum of art  security desk  day

the ghostbusters commercial is playing on a portable tv on the security
desk  rudy the security guard is reading a national enquirer with a
giant frontpage headline ghostbusters save judge  venkman enters

						venkman
			im looking for dana barrett

						security guard
			room 304  restorations
				 recognizing him
			hey  dr venkman  world of the psychic
			im a big big fan  that used to be one of
			my two favorite shows

						venkman
				 flattered
			thanks  whats the other one

						security guard
			bass masters  its a fishing show  ever
			see it

						venkman
			yeah really great  take it easy

he exits

int  museum  restoration studio  day moments later

dana is working on a valuable flemish stilllife by ver meer  janosz is
at the other end of the room still working on the painting of vigo
venkman enters and sneaks up behind dana

						venkman
				 looking at the ver meer
			so this is what you do huh

						dana
				 glad to see him
			oh hello peter

						venkman
			youre really good you know

						dana
			i didnt paint it  im just cleaning it
			its an original ver meer  its worth about
			ten million dollars

vigo

he turns his head and watches venkman and dana

venkman

unaware that hes being watched venkman squints at the still life
holding up his thumb like hes seen artists do

						venkman
			you know you can go to art world and get
			these huge sofasize paintings for about
			fortyfive bucks

he starts looking around at the other artwork in the studio

						dana
			im sure you didnt come here just to talk
			about art

						venkman
			as a matter of fact i stopped by to tell
			you that i havent forgotten your problem
			and that were still on the case

they are interrupted by the sudden appearance of janosz

						janosz
				 smiling at venkman
			dana arent you going to introduce me to
			your friend

						dana
			oh im sorry  this is peter venkman
			peter janosz poha

venkman warily shakes his hand trying to size him up

						janosz
				 avoiding his gaze
			pleasure to meet you  ive seen you on
			television

						venkman
			how are you
				 looking over at the vigo
				 painting
			whats that youre working on johnny

janosz winces at the nickname but lets it go  venkman and dana cross to
the vigo painting  janosz steps protectively in front of it

						janosz
			its a painting im restoring for the new
			byzantine exhibition  its a selfportrait
			of prince vigo the carpathian  he ruled
			most of carpathia and moldavia in the 17th
			century

						venkman
				 staring at the painting
			too bad for the moldavians

						janosz
				 defensive

			he was a very powerful magician  a genius
			in many ways and quite a skilled painter

						dana
			he was also a lunatic and a genocidal madman
			i hate this painting  ive felt very
			uncomfortable since they brought it up from
			storage

						venkman
			yeah its not the kind of thing youd want
			to hang in the rec room  you know what it
			needs
				 picking up a brush
			a fluffy little white kitten in the corner

venkman reaches toward the painting but janosz grabs his hand

						janosz
				 with forced good will
			we dont go around altering valuable
			paintings dr venkman

						venkman
			well id make an exception in this case if
			i were you

dana looks disapprovingly at venkman

						venkman
				 to janosz
			ill let you get back to it  nice meeting
			you

						janosz
			my pleasure

venkman and dana cross back to her workspace

						venkman
				 confidentially
			i may be wrong but i think youve got a
			little crush on this guy

						dana
			goodbye peter

						venkman
				 dragging his feet
			id like to stay but i really dont have
			time to hang around here  ill call you
				 calls out to janosz
			later johnny

he exits

vigo

vigo turns his head and follows dana as she returns to her workbench

dana

she stops vaguely aware of the movement and looks up curiously at the
painting  as she starts to walk on vigo looks at her again but dana
turns suddenly and catches the movement  frightened now she hastily
leaves the studio

												 cut to

int  firehouse  living quarters  continuous action  day

venkman and winston enter and find stantz and spengler at work in the lab
area

						stantz
			oh good youre here  spengler and i have
			something really amazing to show you

						venkman
				 to spengler
			its not that thing you do with your
			nostrils is it

stantz goes to the refrigerator opens the freezer rummages around among
the tv dinners and frozen pizza and pulls out a slime specimen in a
tupperware container

						stantz
				 to venkman
			weve been studying the stuff that we took
			from the subway tunnel

he pops the specimen jar in the microwave and lets it thaw for a minute

						venkman
			and now youre going to eat it

						stantz
			no im just restoring it to its normal state

he takes the specimen out of the microwave and pours some of it into a
large petri dish

						stantz
			now watch this

he leans over the specimen and starts shouting at it

						stantz
				 simulating anger
			you worthless piece of slime
				 as the slime starts to
				 twitch and glow
			you ignorant disgusting blob

specimen

it bubbles and swells changing color with each insult

						stantz
			you foul obnoxious muck

stantz

he continues venting his rage on the slime

						stantz
			ive seen some real crud in my time but
			youre a chemical disgrace

the specimen doubles its size and starts spilling over the rim of the
petri dish

stantz and spengler

they turn to venkman for his reaction  hes dumbfounded

						venkman
			this is what you do with your spare time

						stantz
				 very excited
			this is an incredible breakthrough venkman
			a psychoreactive substance  whatever this
			is it clearly responds to human emotional
			states

						venkman
			mood slime  we ought to bottle this stuff
			and sell it

						spengler
			weve found it at every event site weve
			been to lately

						winston
				 poking at the slime
			you mean this stuff actually feeds on bad
			vibes

						stantz
			like a goat on garbage

						stantz
			were running tests to see if we can get an
			equally strong positive reaction

						venkman
			what kind of tests

						stantz
				 a little embarrassed
			well we sing to it we talk to it we say
			supportive nurturing things 

						venkman
			youre not sleeping with this stuff are you

spengler reacts as if he might be

						stantz
			it really responds to music
				 to spengler
			lets calm it down

spengler picks up a guitar and he and stantz start singing cumbaya to
the slime specimen

specimen

it stops bubbling and starts to shrink

						winston
			does it have any favorites

						stantz
			it likes all the sappy stuff cumbaya
			everything is beautiful its a small
			world  but it loves jackie wilson

venkman and winston watch intently as spengler spoons some of the
psychreactive slime onto an old toaster

						stantz
			watch this

stantz turns on a cassette player and jackie wilsons higher and higher
blasts from the speakers

toaster

it shakes spins and actually starts moving in time with the music

venkman

he stares in disbelief at the dancing toaster as it shoots two pieces of
toast into the air and catches them without missing a beat

						venkman
			i dont care what you say  this could be a
			major christmas gift item

						winston
			right and the first time someone gets mad
			their toaster will eat their hand

						venkman
			so well put a warning on the label

stantz turns off the music and the toaster stops moving  venkman looks
at the toaster and sticks his fingers in the slot

						venkman
				 to the toaster
			go ahead  i dare you

suddenly he yelps as if the toaster has actually bitten into his hand
and wont let go  the others jump in to help him but venkman laughs and
easily withdraws his hand

						venkman
			just kidding

												 cut to

int  danas apartment  night

dana brings oscar into the bathroom and lays him on the bassinet  shes
wearing a robe over her nightgown preparing to bathe the baby  she
turns the taps on the old clawfooted bathtub checks the water
temperature then turns away and starts to undress the baby

						dana
				 talking sweetly to the
				 baby
			look at you  i think we got more food on
			your shirt than we got in your mouth

bathtub

the water pouring from the faucet changes to slime and settles at the
bottom of the tub  dana reaches over and turns off the water without
looking into the tub  when she turns away both taps start to spin by
themselves and the tub flexes and bulges

dana

still unaware she routinely reaches over and squirts some bubble bath
into the tub

bathtub

the rim of the tub puckers up and the sides convulse as if swallowing the
bubble bath

dana
she picks the baby up off the bassinet and turns to place him in the tub
she is just about to lower him into the water when the tub starts to
close up around the baby like a hugh mouth  dana screams snatches the
baby away and runs from the room clutching oscar to her bosom as the
bathtub convulses and vomits up buckets of slime

												 cut to

int  venkmans loft  same night later

the big open loft space is a chaotic clutter of mismatched furniture old
magazines books tapes and sports equipment  venkman is asleep on the
floor still wearing his coat scarf hat and gloves having collapsed
just short of the bedroom  the doorbell rings he wakes up lumbers to
his feet and answers it  he opens the door and sees dana standing there
she is wearing only a nightgown under her coat and oscar is naked
wrapped in a baby blanket

						dana
				 somewhat embarrassed to
				 be there
			im sorry  were you on your way out

						venkman
				 surprised to see her
			no i just got in  a couple hours ago
			come on in
				 noting her apparel
			are we having a pajama party

						dana
				 upset
			peter the bathtub tried to eat oscar

venkman looks at her for a long moment

						venkman
			you know if anyone else told me that id
			have serious doubts  but coming from you
			i cant honestly say im surprised

						dana
			i must be losing my mind  at the museum
			today i could have sworn that terrible
			painting of vigo looked right at me

						venkman
			who could blame him  were you wearing this
			nightgown

						dana
				 distraught
			i dont know what to do anymore

						venkman
			ill get ray and egon to check out the
			bathtub  you better stay here

he exits to the bathroom  she looks around the loft amazed at the
disorder  venkman comes back immediately with an old sweatshirt and
takes oscar from her

						venkman
			now this kid has a serious nudity problem

he spreads the sweatshirt out on the sofa lays the baby on it and starts
tying it around him like a diaper

						venkman
				 to the baby
			this is joe namaths old number you know
			you could get a lot of chicks with this
			just dont pee in it

						dana
			peter what about the bathtub

						venkman
				 grabs the phone and dials
			well take care of that
				 on the phone
			ray pete  listen get over to danas right
			away  her bathtub pulled a fast one 
			tried to eat the kid

						dana
			it was full of this awful pink ooze

						venkman
				 to ray
			sounds like another slime job  no
			theyre all right  theyre here now 
			right  let me know

he hangs up

						venkman
			theyre going over there right now  you
			might as well make yourself at home  let
			me show you around
				 he crosses to the kitchen area
			this is the cuisine de maison 

its an incredible mess the sink is piled high with dirty dishes and the
counters are littered with all sorts of food trash  he grabs a big open
hefty bag on the floor and starts throwing garbage into it

						venkman
				 looking at the sink
			we may have to wash some of these if you get
			hungry 
				 he looks in the fridge
			 but theres no food anyway so forget
			about it  i have all kinds of carryout
			menus if you feel like ordering

he opens a drawer full of pizza barbecue and chinese food menus then
crosses to the bathroom

						venkman
			bathrooms right here  let me just tidy
			up a few things

						dana
			peter this is very nice but you dont have
			to do any of this you know

he goes into the bathroom and we hear water running the toilet flushing
and more items going into the hefty bag

						venkman os
			the shower works but its a little tricky
			theyre both marked hot  it takes a little
			practice but at least this one wont try
			and eat you

he comes out of the bathroom with the nowloaded hefty bag over his
shoulder

						venkman
			be careful on that sofa  its a buttbiter
			but the beds good and i just changed the
			sheets so if you get tired feel free  in
			fact i think you should definitely plan on
			spending the night here

						dana
			really  and how would we handle the sleeping
			arrangements

						venkman
			for me its best if i sleep on my side and
			you spoon up right behind me with your arms
			around me  if we go the other way im
			afraid your hair will be getting in my face
			all night

						dana
			how about you on the sofa and me in bed with
			the baby

						venkman
			or we could do that

						dana
			thank you
				 she picks up oscar
			poor baby  i think i should put him down
			now

						venkman
			ill put him down for you
				 taking the baby
			you are way too short  and your bellybutton
			sticks out  youre nothing but a burden to
			your poor mother

venkman carries the baby into the bedroom leaving dana in the living
room feeling more relaxed and a lot safer

												 cut to

ext  museum  day next morning

venkman is waiting in front of the building as ecto2 pulls up and
stantz spengler and winston get out and report on danas apartment

						venkman
			did you find anything at danas

						stantz
			nothing  just some moodslime residue in
			and around the bathtub  but we did turn up
			some interesting stuff on this vigo character
			you mentioned  i found the name vigo the
			carpathian in leon zundingers magicians
			martyrs and madmen  listen to this

						spengler
				 reads from xerox of entry
			vigo the carpathian born 1505 died 1610 

						venkman
			a hundred and five years  he really hung
			on didnt he

						stantz
			and he didnt die of old age either  he was
			poisoned stabbed shot hung stretched
			disemboweled drawn and quartered

						winston
			i guess he wasnt too popular at the end
			there

						spengler
			no not exactly a man of the people
				 reads
			also known as vigo the cruel vigo the
			torturer vigo the despised and vigo the
			unholy

						stantz
			this guy was a bad monkey  he dabbled in
			all the black arts and listen to this
			prophecy  just before his head died his
			last words were death is but a door time
			is but a window  ill be back

						venkman
			thats it  ill be back

						spengler
			its a rough translation from the moldavian

they enter the museum carrying their monitoring equipment

int  museum  security desk  day continuous action

rudy the guard looks up in surprise as the ghostbusters enter

						rudy
			hey dr venkman  whats going on

						venkman
			were just going up to restorations for a
			minute

						rudy
			oh i cant let you do that  mr poha told
			me not to let you up there anymore

						venkman
				 with mock seriousness
			okay we were trying to keep this quiet but
			i think you can be trusted  tell him ray

						stantz
				 very official
			mister you have an ectoparitic
			subfusionary flux in this building

						rudy
			we got a flux

						winston
			you got a flux and a half

						stantz
			now if you dont want to be the 
				 he counts
			 fifth person ever to die in metashock
			from a planar rift i suggest you get down
			behind that desk and dont move until we
			give you the signal stabilize  all clear

rudy gulps and starts to hunker down behind the desk as the ghostbusters
head upstairs

int  museum  restoration studio  day moments later

janosz is working on the vigo painting when the ghostbusters enter  he
rushes over and stops them at the door

						janosz
			dr venkman  dana is not here

						venkman
			i know

						janosz
			then why have you come

						venkman
			we got a major creep alert and were just
			going down the list  your name was first

						stantz
				 to spengler and winston
			lets sweep it boys

they deploy and start scanning the studio with their monitoring devices

						venkman
				 to janosz
			you know i never got to ask you  where you
			from johnny

						janosz
				 nervous
			the upper west side

						spengler
				 consulting his pke meter
			this entire room is extremely hot peter

						janosz
			what exactly are you looking for dr venkman

						venkman
			well know when we find it  you just sit
			tight  this wont take long

stantz

using the gigameter he traces a strong psychomagnetheric reading to
the painting of vigo in the alcove at the end of the studio  venkman
comes up behind him with janosz right on his heels

						venkman
			this is the one that looked at dana

						janosz
			it must be the chemical fumes in the studio
			people start imagining things 

						venkman
				 interrupts
			im going to rule out the gluesniffing
			theory  if she says it looked at her it
			looked at her
				 to vigo
			hey you  vigie  look at me  im talking
			to you  hey  look at me when im talking
			to you

they watch the painting for any sign of movement

vigo

his eyes stare lifelessly into the distance

stantz and venkman

venkman starts shooting polaroids of vigo

						venkman
				 to vigo
			beautiful beautiful  work with me baby
			just have fun with it
				 to stantz
			okay hes playing it cool  lets finish
			up and get out of here

						stantz
			ill get one more reading

venkman walks off leaving stantz alone with the painting  stantz scans
the painting with the gigameter until his eyes meet vigos

vigo

his eyes seems to burn right through to the depths of stantzs soul

stantz

he stands there transfixed unable to look away as a strange and subtle
transformation occurs within him  winston comes up behind him and breaks
the spell

						winston
				 looking at the painting
			now thats one ugly dude

						stantz
				 coming back to his senses
			huh  what

						winston
			you finished here

						stantz
				 distracted
			what  yeah

						winston
			are you all right  you coming down with
			something

						stantz
			no im fine  i just got lightheaded for
			a second there  lets go

they head for the door

janosz

he escorts the ghostbusters to the door

						janosz
			so you see everything is in order is it
			not

						venkman
			not  dont leave town and report any change
			in your address to the proper authorities
			well be back

they exit

												 cut to

ext  museum  day later

the ghostbusters cross to ecto2

						spengler
			theres definitely something going on in
			that studio  the pke levels were maxplus
			and the gigameter was showing all red

						winston
			id put my money on that vigo character

						venkman
			yeah thats a safe bet
				 to stantz
			you and spengman see what else you can dig
			up on vigo and this little weasel poha
			those two were made for each other

int  ecto2  day later

the ghostbusters are driving back to the firehouse  stantz is at the
wheel  his eyes are vacant he seems distracted and very tense  stantz
swerves suddenly and honks the horn angrily

						stantz
				 to another driver
			idiot
				 honking
			move it you jerk

venkman and winston exchange surprised looks

ext  street  day continuous action

stantz drives extremely fast honking vindictively weaving dangerously
through traffic

int  ecto2  day continuous action

winston looks at ray concerned

						winston
			going a little fast arent we ray

stantz turns on him

						stantz
				 viciously
			are you telling me how to drive

						winston
			no i just thought 

						stantz
			well dont think

he honks again and tromps hard on the accelerator

ext  street  day continuous

ecto2 is now barreling down the avenue  pedestrians leap to safety as
stantz runs a red light

int  ecto2  day continuous action

they hang on to the safety straps as stantz continues his maniacal ride

						winston
				 to stantz really worried
				 now
			are you crazy man  youre going to kill
			somebody

stantz looks at him and smile demonically

						stantz
			no im going to kill everybody

he swerves off the road

ext  ecto2  day continuous action

the car heads right for a big tree

int  ecto2  day continuous action

at the last possible moment winston coldcocks stantz grabs the wheel
and steps across to stomp on the brakes

ext  ecto2  day continuous action

the car skids into the tree and stops  the ghostbusters stumble out
dazed and shaken but unhurt  stantz rubs his eyes and looks at the
others completely at a loss

						stantz
				 himself again
			what happened

						venkman
			you just picked up three penalty points on
			your drivers license

						winston
			are you all right

						stantz
			yeah i guess so  it was the strangest
			thing  i knew what i was doing but i
			couldnt stop  this really terrible feeling
			came over me and  i dont know  i just
			felt like driving into that tree and ending
			it all  whew  sorry boys

they inspect the damage to the car

						venkman
				 confidentially to
				 spengler
			watch him egon  dont even let him shave

												 cut to

int  venkmans loft  day later

theres a knock at the front door a key turns in the lock and venkman
enters somewhat tentatively holding a bouquet of flowers and a small
suitcase of danas

						venkman
				 calls out
			im home

he looks around the large open loft

						venkman
				 to himself
			i knew it  she cleaned

he hears the shower running and crosses to the bathroom  the door is
halfopen and he can see dana in the shower tastefully blurred through
the transparent vinyl curtain  he closes the bathroom door and looks at
the baby asleep on the bed surrounded by pillows to prevent him rolling
off  then he turns and bumps into dana whos just coming out of the
bathroom wrapped in a towel  she jumps back into the bathroom

she comes out again this time wearing a robe

						venkman
			are you all squeaky clean now

						dana
				 humoring him
			yes im very clean  did they find anything
			at my apartment

she squeezes past him into the bedroom and closes the door

						venkman
				 through the door
			nothing  they stayed there all night went
			through your personal stuff made a bunch of
			longdistance phone calls and cleaned out
			your refrigerator  and didnt find anything

dana opens the bedroom door

						dana
			they didnt find anything  in the bathtub
			 the pink ooze  nothing  so what do
			i do now

						venkman
			now you get dressed and we go out  i got a
			babysitter and everything  trust me you
			need it

						dana
			im not here to date  i cant leave oscar
			in a strange place with someone i dont know

						venkman
			its janine melnitz from my staff  shes
			one of my most valuable employees

						dana
			does she know anything about babies

						venkman
			janine melnitz are you kidding
				 handing her the flowers
			do i have a vase  i brought some of your
			clothes  wear something intriguing  i
			brought along some interesting possibilities

						dana
			okay but its not a date  its a dinner

she smiles and closes the door again  he opens the closet and starts
looking for his good suit

						venkman
			did you happen to see some shirts on the
			floor in here

						dana os
			i put them in your hamper  i thought they
			were dirty

						venkman
				 shaking his head
			i have a hamper  next time ask me first
			okay  i have more than two grades of
			laundry  therere lots of subtle levels
			between clean and dirty

he pulls some clothes out of the hamper and inspects them

						venkman
			these arent so bad yet  you just hang them
			up for a while and theyre fine

												 cut to
int  firehouse  reception area  early evening

janine covers her computer terminal and starts turning out the lights
then she notices that the lights are still on upstairs  she starts
primping and freshening up her makeup

int  firehouse  lab area  same time

louis is strapping on a proton pack preparing to deal with slimer once
and for all  hes wearing a bicyclists rearview mirror on a headband

						louis
				 to himself
			okay stinky this is it  showdown time
			you and me pal  you think youre smarter
			than i am  well see about that
				 loud
			oh hello pizza man  oh two larges  i
			only ordered one  oh pepperoni and
			pineapple  my absolute favorite  i guess
			ill have to eat these both by myself

the ceiling

slimer pokes his head through the ceiling and scans the room hanging
upside down

louis

he spots slimer through the rearview mirror

						louis
				 quietly
			okay lets boogie

he whirls around and fires a proton stream at slimer slicing a burning a
gash across the ceiling

the stairs

janine comes up and ducks as a bolt of energy streaks across the room and
strikes the wall behind her  slimer disappears

						louis
				 embarrassed and apologetic
			oh migod  im sorry  i didnt mean to do
			that  it was an accident

						janine
			what are you doing up here

						louis
			i was trying to get that smelly green thing
			the guys asked me to help out  im like the
			fifth ghostbuster

						janine
			why would you want to be a ghostbuster if
			youre already an accountant

						louis
			oh no its just if one of the guys calls
			in sick or gets hurt

louis quickly slips off the proton pack and sets it down

						janine
			have you made any plans yet  you know
			tomorrow is new years eve

						louis
			no i celebrate at the beginning of my
			corporate tax year which is march first
			that way i beat the crowds

						janine
			thats very practical  i hate going out on
			new years eve too

there is an awkward silence between them and janine starts to leave

						janine
			well good night louis

						louis
				 on an impulse
			janine do you feel like maybe getting
			something to eat on the way home

						janine
			id like to but i told dr venkman id
			babysit
				 seductively
			do you want to babysit with me

						louis
			oh sure that sounds great

they exit

												 cut to

int  venkmans loft  night later

there is a knock at the door and venkman goes to answer it  hes dressed
for the evening and looking very dapper

int  venkmans loft  entrance hall  continuous action

venkman opens the door and finds stantz spengler and winston standing
there wearing overthehip rubberized waders firemens slickers and
miners helmets carrying tons of sensing devices meters collection
jars and photographic equipment  they look like theyre rigged out for a
major spelunking expedition

						venkman
				 ushering them in
			dont tell me let me guess  allyoucaneat
			barbecue rib night at the sizzler

						stantz
			were going down into the sewer system to
			see if we can trace the source of the
			psychoreactive slime flow  we thought you
			might want to come along

						venkman
			darn it  i wish id known you were going
			im stuck with these damn dinner reservations

						spengler
			you know animals and lower life forms often
			anticipate major disasters  given the new
			magnetheric readings we could see a tremendous
			breeding surge in the cockroach population

						venkman
			roach breeding  sounds better and better
				 calls out
			dana  the boys are going down under the
			sewers tonight to look for slime  egon
			thinks there might even be some kind of big
			roachbreeding surge  should we forget about
			dinner and go with them instead

dana steps into the living room looking very beautiful

						stantz
			wow

dana looks curiously at their outfits

						dana
			hi

they nod and wave back

						venkman
				 to ray and egon
			i think were going to have to pass on the
			sewer trip boys  let me know what you find
			out

						stantz
				 on his exit
			okay but youre missing all the fun

int  van horne station  night later

stantz spengler and winston come down the stairs into the station
guided by a very old map of the underground city

						stantz
			this is it  van horne station  right where
			the old transit map said it would be

they cross to the edge of the platform and look into the river of slime

						stantz
			lets get a sounding on the depth of that
			flow

stantz has a long coiled graduated cord with a plumb bob on the end of
it attached to his utility belt

						stantz
			stand back

he takes the cord in his hand swings the plumb bob over his head and
casts it out into the middle of the flow  the plumb bob sinks and
spengler reads the depth

						spengler
			six feet  seven  eight 

						stantz
			thats it  its on the bottom

						spengler
			nine feet  ten 

						winston
			is the line sinking

						spengler
			no the slime is rising

stantz looks down and notices the slime rising over the edge of the
platform and around his boots

						stantz
				 alarmed
			lets get out of here boys

he starts to pull out the plumb line but it seems to be stuck

spengler tries to help but whatever is pulling on the cord is stronger
than all three of them  as their unseen adversary pulls them closer and
closer to the edge stantz works desperately to unhook the cord from his
belt but finally just unhooks the whole belt  spengler lets go in time
but winston doesnt  he is jerked off his feet and into the slime flow
stantz and spengler look at each other summon their courage and jump in
after him

												 cut to

int  armand restaurant  night later

dana and venkman are sitting at a table in an elegant restaurant nibbling
caviar and toasting with very expensive champagne

						venkman
				 very intimate
			heres to  us

she sighs and drinks

						venkman
			so  are you making any new years
			resolutions

						dana
			i want to stop getting involved with men who
			arent good for me

						venkman
			does that start exactly at midnight tomorrow
			or could you hold off for a few days maybe

						dana
			for one night in your life do you think
			its possible for us to be completely real

						venkman
			all right you want to be real  so tell me
			why did you dump me

						dana
			oh peter i didnt dump you  i just had
			to protect myself  you really werent very
			good for me you know

						venkman
			im not even good for me

						dana
			why do you say things like that  youre so
			much better than you know

						venkman
			thank you  if i had that kind of support
			on a daily basis i could definitely shape
			up by the turn of the century

						dana
				 already feeling the
				 effects of the champagne
			so why dont you give me a jingle in the
			year 2000

						venkman
			let me jingle you right now

he leans over to kiss her

						dana
			maybe i should call janine

						venkman
			dont worry  janine has a very special way
			with children

they kiss

												 cut to

int  apartment  night same time

janine is on the sofa doing her nails while louis paces with the baby

						janine
				 looking around
			i cant believe a person could actually live
			like this

						louis
				 to the baby
			so these dwarfs had a limited partnership in
			a small mining operation and then one day a
			beautiful princess came to live with them

						janine
			its really not a bad place  it just needs
			a womans touch

						louis
				 continuing
			so they bartered room and board in exchange
			for housekeeping services which was a good
			deal for all of them because then they didnt
			have to withhold tax and social security
			which im not saying is right but its just
			a story so i guess its all right  i can
			finish this later if youre tired

louis goes into the bedroom and puts the baby down

						janine
			youre really good with children louis  i
			can tell
				 as he returns
			why dont you come here and sit with me

						louis
			okay

he sits stiffly beside her on the sofa

						janine
				 getting close
			motherhood is a very natural instinct for
			me  id like to have a baby myself
			wouldnt you

						louis
				 gulps
			tonight

ext  street  manhole cover  night same time

a manhole cover is dislodged and pushed up from below  it slides away
and winston crawls out of the manhole followed by stantz and spengler
they are exhausted and covered with slime

						winston
				 uncharacteristically
				 angry
			nice going ray  what were you trying to
			do  drown me

						stantz
				 unusually mean
			look zeddemore it wasnt my fault you were
			too stupid to drop that line

						winston
				 shoves him
			you better watch your mouth man or ill
			punch your lights out

						stantz
			oh yeah  anytime anytime  just go ahead
			and try it

spengler steps between them with unprecedented aggression

						spengler
			if you two are looking for a fight you got
			one
				 putting up his fists
			who wants it first  come on ray  try me
			sucker

						stantz
				 squaring off
			butt out you pencilnecked geek  ive had
			it with you

they grab each other and start to tussle  suddenly spengler comes to his
senses and pulls them apart

						spengler
				 forcefully
			strip  right now  get out of those clothes

he starts yanking off his slicker and waders  bewildered stantz and
winston start doing the same  spengler helps pull off their clothes and
throws them into the open manhole  now wearing only long underwear they
seem to return to normal

						winston
			what are we doing  ray i was ready to kill
			you

						stantz
			dont you see  its the slime  that stuff
			is like pure concentrated evil

stantz looks around and sees that they are standing right in front of the
museum

						spengler
			and its all flowing right to this spot

												 cut to

int  armand restaurant entrance  night continuous action

the maitre d looks up in surprise as stantz spengler and winston enter
the restaurant wearing only long underwear

						maitre d
				 intercepting them
			can i help you

stantz looks around and spots venkman

						stantz
			thats all right i see him

they blow right by the maitre d who jumps back in horror as they pass

venkman

hes just about to pour more champagne when he sees ray egon and winston
coming toward him through the restaurant

						stantz
				 very excited
			you shouldve been there venkman
			absolutely incredible

						venkman
			yeah sorry i missed it
				 noting their attire
			i guess you guys didnt know about the dress
			code here  its really kind of a coat and
			tie place

						stantz
			its all over the city pete  well under
			it actually

						winston
			rivers of the stuff

						spengler
			and its all flowing toward the museum

he gestures excitedly and a big gob of slime flies across the room and
lands on a welldressed diner

						stantz
				 calls out
			sorry

						dana
			maybe we should discuss this somewhere else

venkman notes the look of alarm on danas face and pulls his colleagues
aside

						venkman
				 confidentially
			boys listen  youre scaring the straights
			lets save this until tomorrow okay

						spengler
				 to venkman
			this wont wait until tomorrow venkman
			its hot and its ready to pop

maitre d

he hurries through the restaurant with two city cops right behind him and
makes straight for venkmans table

						maitre d
			arrest these men

						cop
				 recognizing them
			hey  its the ghostbusters  youre out of
			uniform gentlemen

stantz suddenly realizes how ridiculous they look

						stantz
				 selfconscious
			uh  well  we had a little accident but
			forget that  we have to see the mayor as
			soon as possible

						cop
			look doc why dont you just go home
			youll get a good nights sleep and then you
			can give the mayor a call in the morning
			come on

he takes stantz by the arm but stantz resists

						stantz
			were not going anywhere with you  i told
			you we have to see the mayor now

						cop
				 grabbing stantz
			im warning you  you can come along
			peaceably or 

						venkman
				 grabs the cop
			hey dont be an idiot  this is serious

						cop
				 angry
			look pal keep this up and youre going
			with them

						venkman
			oh yeah

						cop
				 has had enough
			yeah lets go  youre all under arrest

the cop catches venkman in an armlock and starts walking him out of the
restaurant

						venkman
				 to dana
			finish your dessert  its already paid
			for  ill call you

they all exit causing a major commotion among the other diners

ext  armands restaurant  night continuous action

the police car is parked right behind ecto2  spengler stops at the
police car and confronts the cops

						spengler
			look were not drunk and were not crazy
			this is a matter of vital importance

venkman steps in and looks at the policemens nametags

						cop
			what are you doing

						venkman
			i just want to get your names right for when
			the mayor asks us why we didnt let him know
			about this sooner

the cops look at each other uncertain about what to do

						cop
				 relenting
			okay doc  you want to see the mayor you
			got it  follow us

they head for their respective vehicles

												 cut to

int  venkmans loft  night same time

louis and janine are on the sofa making out when dana enters  they jump
up and start smoothing their clothes

						louis
				 embarrassed
			oh hello dana  we were just  we were 

						dana
			i know what you were doing louis  its
			all right

						janine
			how was your date

						dana
			typical  peter was arrested  has he called

						louis
			no nobody called

dana frowns

						dana
			is everything all right with oscar

						janine
			oh hes fine  hes such a good baby  he
			was a little fussy at first but we gave
			him a freach bread pizza and he went right
			to sleep

						dana
				 relieved
			oh good  ill just check on him

she crosses to the bedroom

int  venkmans bedroom  night continuous action

dana looks at oscar sleeping peacefully on the bed  she starts to change
clothes

int  venkmans living room  night same time

louis and janine arent sure what to do

						louis
			should we go

						janine
			i dont think we should leave her alone

						louis
			youre right  we should stay

he grabs janine and they start making out again

												 cut to

int  museum restoration studio  night same time

janosz stands before the painting of vigo  vigo comes to life and
repeats the litany of his power

						vigo
			i vigo the scourge of carpathia 

						janosz
				 heard all this before
			yes the scourge 

						vigo
			 the sorrow of moldavia 

						janosz
			 the sorrow 

						vigo
			i command you

						janosz
				 checking his watch
			i await the word of vigo

						vigo
			the season of evil begins with the birth of
			the new year  bring me the child that i
			might live again

						janosz
				 abjectly humble
			lord vigo the mother dana is fine and
			strong  i was wondering  well would it
			be possible  if i bring the baby could i
			have the woman

						vigo
			so be it  on this the day of darkness she
			will be ours wife to you and mother to me

												 cut to

ext  carl schurz park  night later

preceded by a police car ecto2 enters the small park on the east river
at 88th street and disappears into an underground entrance  the camera
pans up to reveal gracie mansion the residence of the mayor of new york
city

int  gracie mansion  moments later

the ghostbusters now wearing police raincoats over their longjohns are
ushered through the house by a butler to a set of double oak doors  the
butler knocks lightly then opens the door to reveal the mayor sitting in
front of the fireplace in his wellappointed private study flanked by
jack hardemeyer both in tuxedoes  the ghostbusters enter

int  study  continuous action

the mayor is impatient and a little angry at having been pulled out of
his formal reception  he frowns at their bizarre attire

						mayor
			all right  the ghostbusters  ill tell
			you right now ive got two hundred of the
			heaviest campaign contributors in the city
			out there eating bad roast chicken waiting
			for me to give the speech of my life
			youve got two minutes  make it good

						stantz
			you get enough negative energy flowing in a
			dense environment like manhattan it starts
			to build up and if we dont do something
			fast this whole place will blow like a frog
			on a hotplate

						winston
			tell him about the toaster

						venkman
			i dont think hes ready for the toaster

						mayor
				 shaking his head
			being miserable and treating other people
			like dirt is every new yorkers godgiven
			right  what am i supposed to do  go on
			television and tell eight million people
			they have to be nice to each other  im
			sorry none of this makes any sense to me
			and if anything does happen weve got plenty
			of paid professionals to deal with it  your
			two minutes are up  good night gentlemen

the mayor exits leaving the ghostbusters to hardemeyer

						hardemeyer
				 smirking
			thats quite a story

						venkman
			yeah i think the times might be interested
			dont you  the post might have a lot of fun
			with it too

hardemeyers eyes go cold and calculating

						hardemeyer
			before you go running to the newspapers with
			this would you consider telling this slime
			thing to some people downtown

						venkman
			now youre talking

												 cut to

int  parkview hospital  psychiatric ward  night later

an attendant opens a locked door with a wire mesh window and the
ghostbusters in straitjackets are led into the psych ward as hardemeyer
confers with the chief psychiatrist

						winston
				 protesting
			im telling you were not crazy  he is

hardemeyer

he laughs off the remark

						hardemeyer
				 to the psychiatrist
			the mayor wants them kept under strict
			observation for a few days  we think
			theyre seriously disturbed and potentially
			dangerous

						psychiatrist
			well do whatevers necessary

hardemeyer shakes his hand and exits as the door slams shut on the
ghostbusters

int  venkmans loft  night same time

louis and janine are watching an old rerun on tv eating popcorn while
dana is stretched out on the other sofa

						dana
				 wishing theyd leave
			you know you really dont have to stay
			peter should be back soon

						louis
			oh no we dont mind

she hears a little cry from the nursery and sits up

						dana
			excuse me  i think oscar is up

she crosses to the bedroom

int  venkmans bedroom  night continuous action

dana enters and immediately notices that the crib is empty and the window
is open

						dana
				 screams
			louis

frantic now dana rushes to the window and looks out as louis and janine
come running in

ext  window ledge  danas pov  night eclipse

the baby is standing out on the ledge at the corner of the building
fifty feet above the street staring off into the distance as if hes
waiting for something

ext  window ledge  night eclipse continuous action

dana climbs out onto the ledge and starts inching slowly toward the baby
then she stops as a miraculous apparition materializes

louis and janine

they lean out the window gaping at the apparition

ext  venkmans ledge  apparition

a sweet kindlylooking english nanny appears pushing a pram strolling
on thin air parallel to the ledge high above the ground  her face looks
remarkably like janosz pohas  the nanny extends her hand to the baby
who gurgles sweetly as he reaches out to take it

dana

she watches in helpless horror

						dana
				 screams
			no

ghost nanny

she picks up the baby and lays it gently in the pram then turns and
smiles at dana  the smile turns to a hideous grin then the nanny
shrieks at dana and takes off like a shot with the baby

dana

she watches the creature fly off with oscar then climbs back through
the window assisted by louis and janine

						dana
				 resolutely
			louis you have to find peter and tell him
			what happened

						louis
				 confused and worried
			wherere you going

						dana
			to get my baby back

												 cut to

ext  museum  night a little later

a taxi pulls up dana jumps out and rushes into the museum  the moment
the door closes behind her there is a loud thunderclap the ground
trembles and a massive amount of slime erupts from around the base of
the museum and starts covering the walls sealing her inside the
building

												 cut to

int  parkview psychiatric  padded room  night same time

venkman stantz spengler and winston are in a padded cell  they are
handcuffed and the cuffs are chained to thick leather belts around their
waists  venkman stands there banging his head into the padded wall
while the others try to explain the situation to a skeptical
psychiatrist

						stantz
			we think the spirit of vigo the carpathian
			is alive in a painting at the manhattan
			museum

						psychiatrist
			i see and are there any other paintings in
			the museum with bad spirits in them

						spengler
				 impatient
			youre wasting valuable time  we have reason
			to believe that vigo is drawing strength from
			a psychomagnetheric slime flow thats been
			collecting under the city

						psychiatrist
			yes tell me about the slime

						winston
			its potent stuff  we made a toaster dance
			with it then a bathtub tried to eat his
			friends baby

the psychiatrist looks at venkman

						venkman
			dont look at me  i think theyre nuts

												 cut to

int  museum restoration studio  night same time

moonlight streams through the skylight above bathing the studio in
eerie white light  oscar is lying safely on a table in front of the
painting of vigo  dana enters cautiously and sees the baby  seeing no
one else about she quickly sneaks down to the table and picks up the
baby hugging hin tight greatly relieved to find him unharmed and
intact

						janosz os
			i knew you would come

startled dana turns at the sound of his voice as janosz steps out from
behind the vigo painting

						dana
				 defiantly
			what do you want with my baby

						janosz
			no harm will come to the child  you might
			even say its a privilege  he will be the
			vessel for the spirit of vigo  and you 
			well you will be the mother of the ruler
			of the world  doesnt that sound nice

						dana
			if this is what the world will be like i
			dont want to live in it

						janosz
				 confidentially indicating
				 vigo
			i dont believe we have the luxury of choice

						dana
			everybody has a choice

						janosz
			not in this case my dear  take a look
			thats not gainsboroughs blue boy up there
			hes vigo

						dana
			i dont care who he is  hes not taking my
			baby

dana walks quickly to the door but suddenly oscar flies out of her arms
floats across the room and lands lightly back in the cradle

dana

she turns and looks at vigo for the first time feeling his power

						janosz
			you will see  its all for the best

												 cut to

ext  parkview hospital  day next morning

its the last day of the year and the sun is shining brightly

												 cut to

int  parkview psychiatric ward  day same time

the ghostbusters are sitting in the dayroom a dingy lounge for patients
in the locked ward  there is a television set a pingpong table and a
few tables and chairs  stantz is looking at the sky through the heavy
wire mesh covering the windows

						stantz
			this is it boys  its starting  shitstorm
			2000

venkman is doing occupational therapy weaving on a little handloom

						venkman
			it better not start yet  im trying to
			finish my potholder before lunch

						winston
			you think all those predictions about the
			world coming to an end in the 1990s are true

a patient at the next table joins the discussion

						patient
				 with certainty
			1997  my dog told me

						venkman
			what kind of dog

						patient
			labrador

						venkman
				 shakes his head
			habitual liars  they cant help it  its
			in the breed

												 cut to

int  parkview hospital  examining room  day same time

louis is pleading with his cousin sherman tully a doctor on the staff
at parkview  he looks and sounds just like louis

						louis
			come on sherm  youre my cousin  do this
			for me  im begging you

						sherman
			i cant do it louis  it isnt ethical  i
			could lose my license

						louis
			why cant you just have them released
			youre a doctor

						sherman
			im a dermatologist  i cant write orders
			on the psych ward

						louis
			sherman ive done lots of favors for you

						sherman
			like what

						louis
			i got you out of those bad tax shelters

						sherman
			you were the one who got me in

						louis
			i fixed you up with diane troxler and she
			put out didnt she

						sherman
			yeah i had to give her free dermabrasion
			for a year  forget it louis  i could get
			in a lot of trouble

						louis
			im telling you were all going to be in
			big trouble if we dont do something fast
			that ghost guy came and took my friends
			baby and we got to get it back  its just
			a scared little baby sherm

						sherman
			then you should go to the police  i dont
			believe in any of that stuff

sherman looks out the window

ext  sky  shermans pov

the sky begins to go dark as the sun is magically eclipsed

int  examining room  continuous action  day

the room goes dark  louis switches on a lamp which casts an eerie light
on his face

						louis
				 spooky
			do you believe it now sherm

												 cut to

ext  hudson river pier  night eclipse

a drainpipe starts dripping slime into the river near the cunard line
docks

												 cut to

ext  public fountain 59th and fifth  night eclipse

with the plaza hotel in the background the fountain starts to spout
psychoreactive slime

hotel entrance

a wellheeled man and woman step out of a limousine and walk up the steps
toward the revolving door  she looks up at the sky and frowns

						woman
				 shrewish
			i told you we should have stayed in palm
			beach  the weather here gets stranger every
			year

						man
			yes dear

she doesnt notice it but a small amount of slime falls on the back of
her luxurious fulllength white mink coat  the doorman nods
courteously and extends a hand to help her up the stairs

woman

she yelps in pain

						woman
				 to the doorman
			something just bit me

the doorman looks curiously at her then recoils in shock as her coat
comes alive  mink heads pop out of the thick fur snarling barking and
yapping their sharp little teeth biting the air  reacting quickly the
doorman yanks the coat off the womans back throws it to the ground and
starts stomping on it as the woman and her husband look on in horror
the coat scuttles down the steps and runs off down the street

												 cut to

int  midtown central police precinct  night eclipse

the squad room is busy as detectives try to answer the flood of calls
regarding the wave of supernatural events sweeping the city

						detective one
				 on the phone
			look lady of course there are dead people
			there  its a cemetery 
				 his face falls
			they were asking you for directions

						detective two
				 on another phone
			was this a big dinosaur or a little dinosaur
			 oh just the skeleton huh  well where
			is it now

						detective three
				 on the phone
			wait a second  the park bench was chasing
			you  you mean someone was chasing you in
			the park  no the bench itself was chasing
			you  i see 

a weary sergeant answers a ringing phone

						sergeant
			manhattan central flaherty speaking 
			yeah  yeah  what  who is this 
			wait a second

he puts the caller on hold and turns the lieutenant

						sergeant
			lieutenant i think you better talk to this
			guy

						lieutenant
				 on another call
			what is it  im talkin here

						sergeant
			its some dock supervisor down at pier 34
			on the hudson  the guys going nuts

						lieutenant
			whats the problem

						sergeant
				 takes a deep breath
			he says the titanic just arrived

int  port authority office  night eclipse

the dock supervisor stands there with the phone in his hand an assistant
beside him both staring out the window at the ocean liner tied up at the
pier

ext  pier 34  their pov  night eclipse

the name rms titanic is clearly visible on the side of the huge
ship  the gangplank is down and dozens of drowned passengers sopping
wet and festooned with seaweed are disembarking while drowned porters
offload their waterlogged baggage

												 cut to

ext  parkview hospital  night moments latereclipse

ecto2 is parked outside as louis and sherman come out of the hospital
with the ghostbusters now wearing their standard uniforms

						stantz
			good work louis  how did you get us out

						louis
			oh i pulled a few strings  i wouldnt want
			to say any more than that

louis winks conspiratorially at sherman

						louis
			this is my cousin sherman  sherm say hello
			to the ghostbusters
				 sotto voce to stantz
			i promised him a ride in the car if he got
			you out

						sherman
				 to the ghostbusters
			hi its really great to meet you guys  i
			know this sounds weird but once i had a
			dream that my grandfather was standing at
			the foot of my bed but i knew it was
			impossible because he died and he started
			to tell me that 

while hes talking the ghostbusters jump in the ectomobile and drive
off leaving him and louis standing at the curb

						louis
			hey  wait  okay ill meet you there

						sherman
			i thought you were like the fifth ghostbuster

						louis
			i let them handle all the little stuff  i
			just come in on the big ones

												 cut to


original version of the above scene  112788
transcribers notes these two versions of this scene were put in my
copy of the script so i have included both of them here

						louis
			actually they still think youre crazy but
			i convinced them youre not dangerous

						venkman
				 determined
			yeah well guess again

ext  bellevue hospital  night eclipsemoments later

ecto2 is parked outside and the ghostbusters are hastily donning their
standard uniforms

						louis
			i brought everything you asked for and i
			gassed up the car with super unleaded  it
			cost twenty cents more than regular unleaded
			but you get much better performance and in
			an old car like this thatll end up saving
			you money in the long run  i put it on my
			credit card so you can either reimburse me
			or i can take it out of petty cash 

while hes talking the ghostbusters jump in the ecto2 and drive
off without him

						louis
			hey  wait  okay ill meet you there

												 cut to



ext  museum  night eclipselater

ecto2 pulls to the curb across the street from the museum  hundreds of
spectators are already there gawking at the building as the ghostbusters
jump out and gape at the sight that greets them

ext  museum their pov  building

the building is now totally covered in a shell of psychoreactive slime
city workmen and firemen are trying to cut their way in with blowtorches
jackhammers power tools and the jaws of life but they cant even make
a dent

ghostbusters

they size up the situation as they don their proton packs

						stantz
			it looks like a giant jello mold

						venkman
			i hate jello

they stride manfully across the street and approach the main entrance to
the museum

						stantz
				 to the fire captain
			okay give it a rest captain  well take
			it from here

						fire captain
				 skeptical
			be my guest  we been cutting here for three
			hours  what the hells going on  you know
			the titanic arrived this morning

						venkman
			well better late than never

the workmen and firemen put down their tools and fall back as the
ghostbusters draw their particle throwers

						spengler
				 monitoring valences
			full neutronas maser assist

they adjust their settings and prepare to fire

						stantz
			throw em

they trigger their throwers and spray the front doors of the building
with bolts of proton energy but it has no effect on the hardened slime

						venkman
				 to the firemen
			okay who knows cumbaya

a few of the firemen and workmen tentatively raise their hands  venkman
grabs them and lines them up at the entrance of the museum

						venkman
			all right  nice and sweet 
				 starts singing
			cumbaya milord cumbaya 

stantz spengler winston and the firemen sing along reluctantly holding
hands and swaying to the music

						all
				 singing
			cumbaya milord cumbaya cumbaya milord
			cumbaya oh lord cumbaya

stantz inspects the wall of slime with his infragoggles and finds that
they have only managed to open a hole the size of a dime

						stantz
			forget it  the vienna boys choir couldnt
			get through this stuff

						venkman
			good effort  now what  should we say
			supportive nurturing things to it ray

						spengler
			it wont work  theres no way we could
			generate enough positive energy to crack
			that shell

						stantz
			i cant believe things have gotten so bad
			in this city that theres no way back
			sure its crowded its dirty its noisy
			and there are too many people whod just as
			soon step on your face as look at you  but
			thereve got to be a few sparks of sweet
			humanity left in this burnedout burg  we
			just have to mobilize it

						spengler
			we need something that everyone can get
			behind a symbol 

his eyes fall on ecto2s new york state license plate which features a
line drawing of the statue of liberty

						stantz
				 he sees it too
			something that appeals to the best in each
			and every one of us 

						spengler
			something good 

						venkman
			and pure 

						winston
			and decent

ext  the street  night same time

there is a commotion among the crowd as the mayors limousine arrives
with a police escort  jack hardemeyer steps out followed by the mayor
himself and they cross to the museum entrance

hardemeyer his assistant and several police bodyguards confront the
ghostbusters

						hardemeyer
			look ive had it with you  get your stuff
			together get back in that clown car and get
			out of here  this is a city matter and
			everythings under control

						venkman
			oh you think so  well ive got news for
			you  youve got draculas brotherinlaw
			in there and hes got my girlfriend and her
			kid  around about midnight tonight when
			youre partying uptown this guys going to
			come to life and start doing amateur head
			transplants  and thats just round one

						mayor
			are you telling me therere people trapped
			in there

						hardemeyer
				 to his assistant
			this is dynamite  call ap upi and
			cnn and get them down here right away
			when the police bring this kid out i want
			them to hand it right to the mayor and i
			want it all on camera

						stantz
			mr mayor if we dont do something by
			midnight youre going to go down in history
			as the man who let new york get sucked down
			into the tenth level of hell

the mayor stops to consider the situation

						mayor
				 to the fire captain
			can you get into that museum

						fire captain
			if i had a nuclear warhead maybe

the mayor turns to venkman

						mayor
			you know why all these things are happening

						venkman
			we tried to tell you last night but mr
			hardon over here packed us off to the loony
			bin

hardemeyer flips out

						hardemeyer
			this is preposterous  you cant seriously
			believe all this mumbojumbo  its the
			twentieth century for crying out loud
				 viciously to venkman
			look mister i dont know what this stuff
			is or how you got it all over the museum
			but you better get it off and i mean right
			now

he pounds the wall of slime with his fist and they all watch in
amazement as his fist goes through the wall and he is sucked bodily
through the slime curtain  only his shoes can be seen embedded in the
slime

						mayor
				 to venkman
			okay just tell me what you need

												 cut to

ext  liberty island new york harbor  night

with the city skyline in the bg the ghostbusters prepare their
equipment  each of them dons a makeshift backpack consisting of tanks
hoses nozzles and an abundance of gauges valves and regulators
venkman looks up at the statue of liberty looming above them

						venkman
			kind of makes you wonder doesnt it

						winston
			wonder what

						venkman
			if shes naked under that toga  shes
			french you know

						spengler
			theres nothing under that toga but 300 tons
			of iron and steel

stantz is looking worried

						stantz
			i hope we have enough stuff to do the job

						venkman
			only one way to find out
				 to stantz
			ready teddy

they enter the statue

												 cut to

int  statue of liberty  moments later

the ghostbusters are working from the iron staircase that spirals
straight up 100 feet inside the hollow superstructure of the statue
spengler and winston are busy assembling hundreds of wires connected to
various relays on the interior surface of the statue  venkman and stantz
are mounting large auditorium loudspeakers near the top of the staircase
they finish the installation then stantz dons one of the new backpacks
and gives the order

						stantz
			okay boys  lets frost it

they begin hosing the inside of the statue with the psychoreactive
slime

												 cut to

int  firehouse  night same time

janine watches as louis wearing a ghostbuster uniform slings a heavy
proton pack onto his back

						janine
			im not sure this is such a good idea  do
			they know youre doing this

						louis
			oh yeah sure  no  but theres really
			not much to do here and they might need
			some backup at the museum

						janine
			youre very brave louis  good luck

she kisses louis and he gets extremely selfconscious

						louis
			uh  oh  well i better hurry

he rushes out

ext  street outside firehouse  night little later

louis stands on the street corner waiting for a bus  finally a bus
pulls up louis climbs aboard and finds slimer behind the wheel

												 cut to

int  statue of liberty  observation deck  moments later

venkman stantz spengler and winston are standing in the observation
windows in the crown of the statue  it looks like theyre on the bridge
of an ocean liner then the camera pulls back to reveal the head of the
statue

stantz

he plugs the main cable lead into a transformer

						stantz
			its all yours pete
				 checks his watch
			theres not much time left

venkman plugs the speaker cable into a walkman and gives a downbeat

						venkman
				 giving the downbeat
			okay one two three four 

he hits play on the walkman and higher and higher booms from the huge
speakers amplified by the statues vast hollow interior

int  observation deck  night continuous action

the head of the statue lurches suddenly but the ghostbusters cling to
the rail and manage to keep their feet

						stantz
			shes moving

						winston
			ive lived in new york all my life and i
			never visited the statue of liberty  now i
			finally get here and were taking her out
			for a walk

						spengler
				 reading the gigameter
			weve got full power

stantz picks up a nintendo control paddle from a home video game and
starts pushing the buttons

						venkman
				 into a microphone
			okay libby  lets get it in gear

they feel a strong vibration and the statue starts to move

												 cut to

ext  south street seaport  night

new years eve celebrants line the riverfront pointing and gawking at an
incredible sight

ext  east river  their pov  night continuous action

the statue is moving up the river almost completely submerged only her
head from the nose up is visible above the surface

int  observation deck  night continuous action

winston looks out apprehensively

						winston
			how deep does it get  that waters cold and
			i cant swim

						venkman
			its okay  i have my senior lifesaving card

						spengler
			with a water temperature of forty degrees
			wed survive approximately fifteen minutes

stantz studies a maritime navigational chart

						stantz
			ill keep to the middle of the channel
			were okay to 59th street then well go
			ashore and take first avenue to 79th

						venkman
			are you kidding  well hit all that bridge
			traffic at 59th  im going to take 72nd
			straight up to fifth  trust me i used to
			drive a cab

												 cut to

ext  riverfront  night same time

spectators cheer wildly inspired by the sight of the statue

												 cut to

int  museum restoration studio  night same time

janosz is sitting next to dana still wheedling her with promises and
selfserving logic

						janosz
			time is running out dana  soon it will be
			midnight and the city will be mine  and
			vigos  well mainly vigos  but we have
			a spectacular opportunity to make the best
			of our relationship

						dana
			we dont have a relationship

						janosz
			i know  marry me dana and together we
			will raise vigo as our son  there are many
			perks that come with being the mother of a
			living god  im sure he will supply for us
			a magnificent apartment  and perhaps a car
			and free parking

						dana
			i hate and despise you and everything you
			stand for with all my heart and soul  i
			could never forgive what youve done to me
			and my child

						janosz
			many marriages begin with a certain amount
			of distance but after a while i believe we
			could learn to love each other  think about
			it

						dana
			id rather not

												 cut to

ext  times square  night same time

people are jammed together shoulder to shoulder filling times square
watching the big seiko clock count down the last ten minutes to midnight
suddenly they look down broadway and see a magnificent sight

ext  broadway  night continuous action

the statue of liberty is walking up broadway approaching 42nd street
with higher and higher booming from the speakers inside  a great cheer
goes up and the crowd goes wild with joy dancing and singing along with
the music

int  statue of liberty observation deck  night continuous

spengler reads the gigameter

						spengler
			its working  the positive gevs are
			climbing

						venkman
				 patting the statue
			they love you lib  keep it up

												 cut to

ext  fifth avenue  night later

the avenue has been closed to traffic and barricades placed blocking all
the side streets  a squadron of police motorcycles comes speeding around
the corner at 72nd street and proceeds up fifth avenue in the direction
of the museum  then music is heard booming in the distance the ground
shakes and the statue of liberty comes walking around the corner onto
fifth avenue followed by a wildly cheering throng

												 cut to

int  observation deck  night continuous action

the ghostbusters can see the museum ahead

						venkman
			so far so good

						spengler
				 worried
			im worried  the vibrations could shake her
			to pieces  we should have padded her feet

						stantz
			i dont think they make nikes in her size

						venkman
			were almost there lib
				 to stantz
			step on it

ext  street  night continuous action

the statues huge foot comes down and squashes a car

int  observation deck  night continuous action

the ghostbusters look down at the flattened car

						stantz
				 shouts out the window
			my fault

						venkman
				 shouts
			shes new in town

												 cut to

int  museum  restoration studio  same time

janosz is painting the last of the mystical symbols on the babys chest

												 cut to

ext  times square  night same time

the people still in the square start counting off the last ten seconds to
midnight and the new year

						crowd
				 chanting
			ten  nine  eight  seven 

												 cut to

int  museum  painting  night

a strange light spreads over the painting  as the light moves onto his
face vigo spreads his arms wide and his upper body starts to emerge from
the canvas

						vigo
			soon my life begins  then woe to the weak
			all power to me the world is mine

int  museum  janosz  night

the babys body begins to glow as vigo reaches out for it  then suddenly
a dark shadow falls across the skylight  janosz looks up

int  museum  janoszs pov  skylight  night

the statue of liberty is looming over the skylight looking down on janosz
with an expression of righteous anger on its face

ext  museum  night continuous action

kneeling beside the museum the statue draws back its mighty right arm
and smashes the skylight with its torch

int  restoration studio  night continuous action

janosz retreats from the shower of broken glass as the ghostbusters come
sliding down ropes into the studio and confront janosz with their new
weapons  quick as a flash dana seizes the moment dashes across the
studio and snatches the baby from vigos outstretched arms

						venkman
				 to janosz
			happy new year

int  museum  vigo painting  night continuous action

vigo bellows in rage

int  museum  studio  night continuous action

janosz steps in front of the painting

						spengler
			hi there  feel free to try something stupid

janosz sneers trusting the invincibility of vigo

						janosz
			you pitiful miserable creatures  you dare
			to challenge the power of darkness  dont
			you realize what you are dealing with  hes
			vigo  you are like the buzzing of flies to
			him

						venkman
				 sighs
			oh johnny  did you back the wrong horse

with that the ghostbusters fire their slimeblowers and hose janosz from
head to toe blowing him into the corner  then they turn to vigo

vigo

he is now almost completely out of the painting but still held from the
knees down  he spits and rages at the ghostbusters trying to unleash
his magic powers

the ghostbusters

they stand fast secure in the knowledge that vigos power has been
neutralized by the good will of the people

						stantz
			vigi vigi vigi  you have been a bad
			little monkey

						venkman
			the whole citys together on this one  we
			took a vote  everybodys down on you you
			know

						winston
				 arming his slimeblower
			say goodnight now

suddenly vigo grabs stantz by the neck and holds him up as a shield

						spengler
			dont shoot  youll hit ray

						stantz
				 strangling
			do it  just do it

winston fires and hoses both vigo and ray

vigo

he bellows and drops ray then falls back into the painting

int  museum  painting  night

the paint turns liquid melts off the canvas and runs onto the floor
revealing another painting underneath it

int  museum  ghostbusters  night after battle

venkman spengler and winston rush over to ray and kneel beside him  he
is completely covered with slime and motionless

						spengler
				 examining him
			hes breathing

winston wipes the slime off rays face and ray opens his eyes

						winston
			ray  ray  how do you feel man

						stantz
				 smiles lovingly
			groovy  ive never felt better in my life

						venkman
			oh no  weve got to live with this

they pull him to his feet

						stantz
			i love you guys  youre the best friends
			ive ever had

he hugs them each in turn leaving them slimed as well  venkman recoils
in disgust

						venkman
			hey i just had this suit cleaned
				 indicating janosz
			take care of the wiggler will you

venkman crosses to dana who is snuggling the baby  she hugs venkman

						venkman
			what is this  a love in
				 notes the symbols painted
				 on the babys body
			hey sailor  i think the tattoos are a
			little much dont you

he picks up the baby

						dana
				 to venkman
			i think he likes you  i think i do too

						venkman
			finally came to your senses huh

they hug and kiss

spengler winston and stantz

they help janosz to his feet  hes dazed but unhurt

						janosz
				 restored to normalcy
			what happened

						stantz
				 calmly
			sir you had a violent prolonged
			transformative psychic episode  but its
			over now  want a coffee

						janosz
				 extremely nice
			thats very kind of you

						spengler
				 to stantz
			hes fine ray  physically intact
			psychomagnetherically neutral

						janosz
			is that good

						winston
			its where you want to be

as they exit they stop to examine the painting that was concealed by
vigos selfportrait

						spengler
			late renaissance i think  caravaggio or
			brunelleschi

						winston
				 staring at it
			theres something very familiar about this
			painting

int  museum  new painting  night

its a beautiful painting in the highrenaissance style depicting four
archangels hovering protectively over a cherubic baby  one holds a harp
one an olive branch the third a book and the last a sword  most
remarkably their faces bear an uncanny resemblance to venkman stantz
spengler and winston

												 cut to

ext  street  night same time

a city bus pulls up near the museum and louis steps off  he waves his
thanks to slimer who is behind the wheel

						louis
				 to slimer
			okay so monday night well get something
			to eat and maybe go bowling  can you bowl
			with those little arms

slimer grunts and slobbers a reply flexing his scrawny biceps

						louis
			okay i have to go save dana  ill see you
			later

												 cut to

ext museum  night little later

the ghostbusters are greeted by wild cheering and applause as they come
out the main entrance with dana and the baby  everybody starts singing
auld lang syne  louis picks his way through the celebrating crowd and
finds the ghostbusters

						louis
			am i too late

						stantz
			no youre right on time

stantz pops the cork on a bottle of champagne and hands it to him

ext  museum entrance  night same time

hardemeyer staggers out of the museum covered in slime  he looks at the
celebrating crowd and his eyes fill with tears

						hardemeyer
				 weepy
			happy new year everybody

he joins in on auld lang syne

												 cut to

ext  central park  night later

the statue of liberty is sprawled inert on her back in the park behind
the museum her toga up over her knees  the mayor looks nearly suicidal
the ghostbusters stand beside him commiserating

						venkman
			shes all right  shes just sleeping it off

						mayor
				 stricken
			we just had it restored

						venkman
			this probably isnt a good time to bring
			this up but the last time we did a job for
			the city you stiffed us

						stantz
				 handing the mayor an
				 invoice
			this is a bill for tonights job

the mayor looks at it and gasps at the amount

						mayor
			what  this is way too much
				 hands the bill back to
				 venkman
			we wont pay

venkman looks at the statue

						venkman
				 to stantz
			i think she looks pretty good here dont
			you

						stantz
			yeah and a lot easier to get to than that island

realizing he has no alternative the mayor sighs and takes the bill back

				mayor
		all right all right  if you can wait until
		monday ill issue you a check

				spengler
		sorry  no checks  company policy

								cut to

ext liberty island  day weeks later

the sun is shining brightly and liberty is back on her pedestal where she
belongs  the mayor and a host of officials are commemorating her return
the ghostbusters dana janine and louis are there as honored guests

				venkman
			looking up at the statue
		pretty impressive huh

				spengler
			musing
		its probably the first thing my
		grandparents saw when they came to this
		country

				venkman
		from where  neptune

				spengler
		they came from ostrov in eastern poland

				venkman
		ostrov  ive been there  good party town

				stantz
			in a similarly reflective
			mood
		my greatgrandparents were swiss  i still
		have the pictures they took of the statue
		from the boat when they arrived

				venkman
		oh right you told me that  they came to
		america seeking other kinds of cheese as i
		recall  how about you winston

						winston
			my people werent taking any pictures from
			those slave ships man  and there wasnt
			any statue in charleston harbor to welcome
			them either  what are you dana

						venkman
			miss blue blood  her familys been here
			since the year 12

						dana
			thats not true  it was 1620

						venkman
			same difference

						stantz
			whats your story pete

						venkman
			me  im a little of everything  some irish
			some german some french dutch  the women
			in my family slept around  and thats what
			made this country great

						dana
			thats a terrible thing to say

						venkman
			so what  its a free country
				 looking up at the statue
			thanks lib

they all look up at the statue

ext  statue of liberty  head of statue  day

slimer flies out one of the observation windows theme music kicks in and
the camera pulls up and away from the island to a high shot of the
statue lower manhattan and the shining sea beyond

											fade out

						the end