gi jane


                             by

                        david twohy
























                                            first draft

                                            august 6 1995






fade in

int  senate hearing room  capitol bldg  day

blinding in their white uniforms naval flag officers sit
in the audience showing their support for theodore hayes
a 50yearold civilian  this is his confirmation hearing
reading from prepared material

                         hayes
           last few years have brought many
          advances in the interests of women
          in naval service particularly in
          the landbased maritime specialties
          whats more the navy has instituted
          special sensitivity courses with an
          eye on 

                         dehaven
          whoa whoa whoa  landbased
          maritime specialties gimme a
          second here to deeuphemize that

at the center of a dais lillian dehaven leans back to
ponder the ceiling of the hearing room  her plaque card
reads chairperson  senate arms committee dehaven is a
toughhided old southern belle scarlett ohara at 60
in her arsenal she carries conversational handgrenades 
and shes apt to pull a pin at the slightest whim

                         dehaven
          would that be anything like
          typing  restocking the
          cupboards  that sort of thing mr
          hayes

chuckles from the packed gallery  the flag officers go
stonefaced  hayes forces a smile

                         hayes
          hardly the case senator

                         dehaven
          well im just an old dame without
          much time left so youll pardon me
          if i jump right in here before they
          discontinue my bloodtype  i am
          deeply concerned over the navys
          seemingly incontrovertible attitude
          toward women in the military  case
          in point

on cue aides begin distributing reports to other members
of the dais  hayes gets a copy too  and it jars him

                         dehaven
          the lark report

                         hayes
          madam senator this is an internal
          document of the us navy  i must
          seriously question whether 

                         dehaven
                  to others on panel
          the navys conclusion regarding the
          crash of an f14 aboard an aircraft
          carrier  female aviator it just so
          happens
                  to hayes
          youre familiar with this report and
          its conclusion am i right

                         hayes
          i was one member of the investigating
          commission

                         dehaven
          yes i see your signature right here
           twice the size of everyone
          elses  and your conclusion was
          pilot error hmm

                         hayes
          im really not prepared for any kind
          of indepth review of 

                         dehaven
          id like to think our next secretary
          of the navy would be prepared for
          anything mr hayes

a humorless smile  shes roasting his nuts over an open
fire and everyone knows it

                         hayes
          the commission concluded that the
          aviator in question failed to
          execute a proper approach to the
          carrier

                         dehaven
          that aside for the moment im
          struck by the tenor the illspirit
          of your report the degrading
          remarks by other aviators
          innuendo about her performance in
          unrelated situations even a
          reference to her sexual activity the
          weekend prior
                  closing report
          in my seven years on this committee
          ive never seen a downed aviator
          treated like this  never  im
          deeply disturbed by this report mr
          hayes  not just what it bodes for
          women in the military  but for
          your own confirmation as well


int  corridor  capitol bldg  day

heading for her office dehaven is escorted by a small
press retinue

                         dehaven
           a full 35 percent of all jobs in
          the us military are still to this
          day offlimits to women  and
          thats simply gotta change

                         press 1
          what about those who say women
          arent suited for all jobs  that
          theyre physically weaker they
          have less stamina

                         dehaven
          sure  and were gonna hog the
          bathroom too

dehavens aide catches up pulls her aside

                         dehavens aide
          white house boys want a private
          meeting

                         dehaven
          ill act surprised


int  dehavens office  capitol bldg  day

shoes dumped on her desk dehaven changes out kneehigh
stockings while devoting one ear to

                         white house 1
           to reassure you that he has
          every faith in the ability of mr
          hayes to guide the navy into the
          next century  the task as the
          administration sees it is to
          acknowledge changing realities
          without losing traditional values

a beat  dehaven looks between the two white house boys 
1 young and eager 2 older and cagier

                         dehaven
          zat it  ten minutes nothin on
          the table  sweetcakes you best go
          back to the president and tell him
          to open up the phone book and start
          lookin for his next nominee

white house 1 looks spanked  taking over 2 pops a
briefcase  an inchthink report appears before dehaven

                         white house 2
          administrations plan for 100
          percent integration  if female
          candidates measure up in a series of
          test cases the president will
          support full integration within
          three years time

surprised  maybe even startled  dehaven flips through
the report absorbing by osmosis

                         white house 2
          its your genderblind navy
          senator  surely youre not going to
          balk now

                         dehaven
          well its just that askin you all
          to integrate the navy is like
          sending a man to do a womans job
                  a beat
          how do you propose to handle the
          combat exclusion laws

                         white house 2
          keep narrowing the definitions
          keep redefining

                         white house 1
          we got around it in saudi arabia

                         dehaven
          by calling women honorary men
          ingenious

                         white house 2
          cmon senator presidents pitchin
          right down the center of your plate
          if women measure up to men theyve
          got the job  you going to take a
          swing  or step out of the box

dehaven riffles the edges of the report thinking it over
thinking light years ahead


ext  capitol bldg  day

buttoning up topcoats the white house boys move down
marble steps to reach a pair of limousines  hayes and two
flag officers wait

                         hayes
          well

                         white house 2
                  shaking hand
          congratulations mr secretary


int  hayes limousine  day

inside the moving car

                         hayes
          so she picks the women we pick the
          programs  seals

                         flag officer 1
          id go special reconnaissance
          every bit as tough  and we have a
          60 percent dropout rate among the
          men

                         hayes
          then i suggest we start there

                         flag officer 1
          doesnt matter who she picks  no
          woman is going to last one week in a
          commando training course  and i
          dont care who it is


ext  potomac river  washington dc  day

winterscape  dotted with ice floes the potomac wends
through the capitol city banks iridescent with snow
morning water calm  theres an almost hallowed beauty to
it all  soon we pick out

a spot of dayglo  coming out of the mouth of morning
overtaking the floes

closer on jordan oneil  she pushes her flatwater kayak
downriver paddling hard and clean making good time
gliding through the graceful arches of the arlington
bridge she passes

cars overhead  gridlocked by snow conditions

in seconds jordan paddles clear leaving the traffic
behind as she heads toward the washington monument
something burrs from a lifevest pocket  she rips through
velcro to free a cell phone

                         jordan
          lieutenant oneil

                         royce vo
          gotta situation here  where are
          you  stuck in traffic

                         jordan
                  checking dive watch
          not due in for 22 minutes sir
          watcha got


int  situation room  nic  day

                         royce
          all right stand by were going to
          switch over to comsat

a tactical officer reroutes the call via defense
satellite cryptography flashing on terminals  lieutenant
commander robert royce joins other intel officers at a
conference table  theyre pouring over weather charts
navigation logs highaltitude nro video

                         tactical officer
          voicesystem now secure

                         royce
                  into speaker
          okay fresh stuff  lost a nato
          plane over the sea of japan  elb
          signals leads us to believe the
          pilot is alive and has made his way
          to the north korean shore near a
          fishing village tamyung

                         jordan vo
          do we know its him using the
          beacon  not a decoy

                         royce
          signals received only sparingly in
          such a pattern that leads us to
          conclude it is a downed aviator
          trying to conserve his batteries

                         jordan vo
          chances of recovery

                         royce
          youre the analyst for east china
          oneil  analyze


ext  potomac river  washington dc  day

riding the current jordan blows a troubled sigh as she
accesses the file of her brain  drifting past the
jefferson memorial

                         jordan
          north korean beaches are the best
          protected most heavily monitored in
          the world  the civilian population
          is so propagandized that it acts as
          an early warning system  extraction
          team has to be small and silent 
          id go with seals over delta force
          problem is dont want to hold a
          conventional sub offshore for
          target practice  wheres the polk

intercutting

                         royce
          halfway round the world  so thats
          the problem  we can get the team
          in just not out

                         jordan
                  an inspired beat
          unless you whiskey run

                         royce
          blank faces here oneil

                         jordan
          quickhit technique used by capone
          rigged a getaway car with running
          boards and handles  all his guys
          had to do was jump on and take a
          ride  check the files  dprk57 
          i doped it out as a contingency
          plan  seal team infiltrates picks
          up the package links up with
          recovery sub  but dont waste time
          opening and closing hatches  they
          just grab the periscope and hang on
          for neutral waters

a dubious beat

                         royce
          you expect the extraction team to
          ride the sub bareback  is that
          correct oneil

                         jordan
          only four minutes to neutral waters
          sir  why not

silence on the radio  theyre discussing her scenario
privately  during jordans kayak reaches the junction of
the potomac and the anacostia rivers  on the far bank
lies

naval intel center nic bristling with communication
antennae

jordan stares at the complex waiting for a response

                         royce
          all right sending the
          recommendation across the river
          royce out

the phone goes dead

                         jordan
          no thank you sir


ext  security station  nic  day

bundled in topcoat and scarves military and civilian
employees transit a security station on their way inside
presently jordan appears  wearing a wetsuit and
balancing a collapsed kayak on her head  she flashes a
photobadge and doubletimes inside


int  corridor  nic  day

jordan exits a locker room  smoothing out her khaki
uniform she heads down a broad corridor with cipherlock
doors  falling in step

                         royce
          that was good headwork lieutenant

                         jordan
          thank you sir  we hear back from
          the pentagon

                         royce
                  scoffing
          probably hear back from cnn first

                         jordan
          hate this part  just sweating it
          out on the sidelines

                         royce
          intel has its own glory lieutenant
           no matter how subtle

now they reach


int  bullpen  nic  day

a circular chamber  dominating the ground floor is the
bullpen a hive of cubicles an computer stations  on the
second floor are executive offices ringing the bullpen

                         royce
          by the way ill need that option
          paper by 11hundred today so i can
          review it with admiral hanover  and
          do we have any of that breakfast tea
          around here

                         jordan
                  with a look
          is this my glory sir

on the upper walkway a frazzled nic secretary
appears  she spots royce and jordan below

                         nic secretary
          excuse me but i have senator
          dehaven on the line for you

                         royce
          jesus god what now

he bounds up the stairs toward his office

                         nic secretary
          im sorry sir no  she asked to
          speak with lieutenant oneil

royce turns back and gives jordan a halloffame look
oh really


int  dehavens office  capitol bldg  day

                         dehaven
                  into phone
          so everyone i talk to says youre
          top drawer with silk stockings
          inside

                         jordan vo
          thank you maam  um may i ask
          what this is regarding

                         dehaven
                  reading file
          highschool pentathlete rotc
          scholarship graduated with
          honors top marks in basic
          training and as it just so
          happens a constituent of my home
          state of virginia  oh the things
          ill do for one extra vote


int  bullpen  nic  day

on the phone jordan glances around  coworkers mull
within earshot  those out of earshot post email memos on
jordans computer  moving up in life  i want a full
report  dont tell her who you really voted for

                         dehaven
          lieutenant oneil i am prepared to
          nominate you for the navys special
          reconnaissance program  should you
          accept youll ship out to coronado
          next week and join in the big
          testosterone festival  complete the
          course and youll have a fast
          ticket to any assignment you want
          thats my personal promise to you

a beat as jordans mind catches up to her ears  now
interrcutting the two

                         jordan
          coronado

                         dehaven
          california

                         jordan
          i know that sir  maam  its just
          that beggin your pardon
          senator but do you understand
          that this involves combat training

                         dehaven
          this is just a test case oneil
          but if it works out  if you work
          out  it could well change the
          navys official policy on women in
          combat  or actually its official
          nonpolicy  now whos your
          immediate superior there

                         jordan
          captain dwyer  technically

                         dehaven
          my office will fill him in and help
          expedite  look forward to meeting
          you at the proper time  jumping off
          now

                         jordan
          uh question maam

                         dehaven
          yes dear

                         jordan
          would i be the only one  the only
          woman

                         dehaven
          therell be more to follow  but
          yes dear right now youre the pick
          of a very large litter  and your
          success would mean a lot  jumping
          now

the line goes dead  jordan hangs up catatonically

                         jordan
          well shitadoodledo


ext  gunkhole harbor  potomac  night

a small gunkhole harbor up the potomac  snow falls thick
and silent on overturned canoes stored for the winter
beyond stands a clapboard rental house


int  jordans house  night

its not so much furnished as equipped  scuba gear and
wetsuits in the mud room life vests on coat racks a
training bag and boxing gloves hanging in the living room
in the kitchen we find

a naked man  hes steeping tea

                         jordan os
           well i survived basic training
          and three brothers  so i know how
          to fight  what scares me are the
          sexual politics  i dont want to be
          turned into some poster girl for
          womens rights

camera follows as the naked man carries a steaming mug
through the house


int  bathroom  jordans house  night

 and sets it down beside jordan languishing in a tub
snow builds on a window sill  facing jordan the man
slides into the tub

                         royce
          so whyre you even considering it
          are you

                         jordan
          just like you would be

                         royce
          specrecon  those guys are world
          class warriors  and they will not
          want you there jordan

                         jordan
          i take it you dont either  feet

dutifully royce massages her feet

                         royce
          well youre doin shithot at
          intel

                         jordan
          royce  were the same age we
          started the same time  and now
          youre sitting in the upperdecks
          while im still down in the bullpen
          what does that tell you about the
          navy

                         royce
                  shaking head
          shes haze grey and underway

                         jordan
          you need operational duty to really
          advance you need combat training
          to go operational yet combat
          training is offlimits to people
          with tits  im topped out at intel
          forget the glass ceiling  im
          beating my head on a big brass
          ceiling

                         royce
          so dump on me

                         jordan
          this has nothing to do with you

                         royce
                  getting out
          well guess i dont even need to be
          here

                         jordan
          get your dick back here  it has
          everything to do with you

                         royce
          youre such a ballbreaker
          sometimes  especially at night

                         jordan
          sorry  but after our days
                  a thoughtful sip
          so if i try this thing if i ship
          out to coronado what happens
          here

                         royce
          ill try to keep the door open  if
          you wash out i make it so that 

                         jordan
          wai wait  what happens if it
          works  four months of training
          three years of operational duty
          what then

                         royce
                  blowing a sigh
          i dont feel like doing an option
          paper on the rest of my life
          jordan  maybe we should just let it
          happen

                         jordan
          which is guyspeak for

                         royce
                  conceding
          sounded lame as soon as it came out
          of my mouth  but im trying to be
          honest okay  three years is a long
          time  dont ask me to predict how
          ill feel then jordan because i
          dont know  and either do you

                         jordan
          you know right up until you said
          that  i thought i did know

wounded she gets out

                         royce
          jordan

                         jordan
          thank you royce  it was shaping up
          like such a tough call  and then
          you go and make it so goddamn easy
          really thank you so much

she punches into a robe and leaves  royce considers
drowning himself in the tub


ext  coronado bridge  san diego  day

jordan drives a topdown mustang across the sweeping
coronado bridge cityscape behind her naval base ahead

a flock of pelicans pace jordan alongside the bridge
suddenly two navy helos blast overhead scattering the
pelicans


ext  the grinder  coronado naval base  day

on base jordan carries a gunnysack across an asphalt
courtyard  the is the grinder reminiscent of a
gladiators arena  she notices at one end

a silver ships bell  hung prominently


int  administration  coronado naval base  day

                         jordan
          excuse me lieutenant  i was told
          this is where i check in

a duty officer looks up to find jordan across a counter
in no particular hurry the duty officer makes his way
over to check jordans orders

                         duty officer
                  looking up
          so youre the one

hearing other workers look up  among them is a female
ensign kathy blondell  no makeup no nail polish no
concession to her sex  throughout shell watch jordan
with more than passing interest

                         jordan
          still dont have my bearings yet
          direct me to the officers quarters

the duty officer stamps her paperwork returns it with
room assignment and keys

                         duty officer
          youll proceed directly to the
          infirmary for eye tests blood
          tests urinalysis pregnancy test
          uniform issue adjacent  then youre
          to report to the base commander
          hed like a word with you

                         jordan
          fine  and the officers quarters

                         duty officer
          cos office can supply you with
          directions  enjoy your visit
          lieutenant

its a nasty little barb  one that jordan decides to let
slide  jordan turns for the door  blondell catches up
with a base map

                         blondell
          boq south side  take a
          starboard tack out the door

                         jordan
          thank you ensign

                         blondell
          no problem lieutenant


int  cos office  coronado naval base  day

a soft knocking

                         co
          come

a yeoman opens the door  behind him is jordan

                         yeoman
          lieutenant jg oneil reporting
          sir

for a beat commanding officer co turrentine takes
stock of the female in his doorway sizing her up like a
fighter across the ring  then he stubs out a perfectly
good cigar rises with an amiable face and touches the
back of a chair  stopping just short of pulling it out
for her

                         co
          yes of course  please have a
          seat lieutenant

                         jordan
          thank you sir

                         co
          would you care for a beverage  tea

                         jordan
          im fine sir

                         co
          so  were still coming to terms
          with the exact protocol for this 
          for integrating the specrecon
          training  it may not always be
          smooth but were trying to make it
          as painless as possible for you

                         jordan
          thank you sir  but i expect a
          certain amount of pain

more stocktaking  is he looking at her hair

                         jordan
          barber was my next stop sir
          wouldve had it regulation sooner
          only 

                         co
          dont worry about it  if its off
          your collar and out of your eyes
          thats all im going to ask

                         jordan
          really i have no problem with 

                         co
          im not out to change your sex
          lieutenant  youll have separate
          beds separate heads  if you have
          specific medical needs inform the
          infirmary  if a classmate or
          superior acts in an harassing or
          otherwise unbecoming manner please
          inform me immediately so i can deal
          with it immediately  questions

                         jordan
          none at this time sir

                         co
          then thats all i have to say
          dismissed

another smile another phantom gesture on the back of her
chair  if jordan was expecting a fight the bell never
sounded  she rises salutes  then turns back at the
door

                         jordan
          sir i just want you to know im
          not here to make a statement  i
          dont want to make men look foolish
          all i care about is completing the
          training and getting operational
          experience  just like everyone
          else i suspect

                         co
          if you were like everyone else
          lieutenant i suspect we wouldnt be
          making statements about not making
          statements would we
                  a beat
          take your leave


ext  boq  coronado naval base  day

the specrecon trainees loiter outside their open rooms
pumping weights hosing down dive gear trading walkman
tapes  this is the last day of liberty theyll have for a
long time

                         miller
          what am i scannin here

other eyes quickly lock in on

jordan  across a grass courtyard she walks the ground
floor of an identical building trying to match key number
to room number  every door is open every room empty
soon she feels the presence of

the men  theyre disgorging from their rooms  ten
twenty thirty of them  all buffed and cut  these guys
are what hitler saw in his dreams

jordan picks up her pace  where the hell is her room

on all three levels of their building the men shadow
jordan en masse  not hooting  not leering  just
assessing

jordan finds her room at the far corner of the building
shes got the entire floor to herself  with a last look
over her shoulder jordan vanishes inside


ext  the grinder  coronado naval base  day

                         co
          special reconnaissance  here you
          will be trained to infiltrate
          hostile territory to be the real
          time eyes on the ground to
          recover assigned targets and if
          need be to fight your way out under
          adverse conditions

camera surveys faces of the trainees  miller mccool
slutnik cortez flea stamm england newberry wickwire
well get to know them later  dressed in navy greens
they stand in formation  ten rows ten deep helmets in
hand  pacing before them

                         co
          that is all that will be said about
          the special nature of this class 
          by us or by you  many of you have
          waited years for admission to this
          program  opportunities like this
          are rare  and those who seize upon
          them are rarer still

he approaches jordan  we can tell what shes thinking
just keep moving  dont single me out

                         co
          other than that there is little to
          be said but good luck gentleman
                  correcting
          gentlepersons

jordan flinches

                         co
          now i turn you over to the chief
          training officer  he has earned six
          naval commendations the purple
          heart and the navy cross for
          heroism and valor  i give you
          master chief john james urgayle

taking over the chief stands before the class a moment
sizing them up while giving them  get an eyeload of him
too  his body is 30 years old his face 40 his eyes 50
an ageless warrior  somewhere the blood of ulysses runs
in this guys veins

the chief lifts a bullhorn to deliver his opening salvo 
and its anything but the kickass rant the class is
expecting

                         the chief
          the sun and moon the ebb and flow
          of the pacific tides global
          warming the very angle of the
          earth upon its axis these are
          just some of the things i control in
          my world

trainees swap private looks

                         mccool
          were fucked

                         slutnik
          darth vader reads poetry

                         mccool
          we are so fucked


ext  beach  coronado naval station  day

start on boots crashing through shallow surf spraying
water  we assume this is a routine beach run  until
view rises to reveal

telephone poles on their shoulder  working in groups of
10 trainees labor under 300pound poles  jordan six
inches shorter than most looks like atlas carrying the
weight of the world  but shes doing it

                         instructor
          count down one two count
          down three four

                         class cadence
          one two three four one two
          three four

an ambulance shadows the class  perched on the front
bumper like an hoodornament the chief keeps working his
bullhorn

                         the chief
          you may think that you are the
          brightest the best the strongest
          i assure you that is a total
          delusion on your part  it is my job
          to show you just how weak human
          beings can truly be  60 percent of
          you will not finish this course
          how do i know  because that is an
          historical fact

its also intimidating shit

                         the chief
          poles down

the earth literally shakes as the phone poles hit the damp
sand  approaching on foot the chief loads fresh
batteries into his bullhorn  he does it like a man
thumbing rounds into a shotgun

                         the chief
          now for the bad new  i always like
          to get one quitter on the first day
          and until i do the first day does
          not end  so look around right now
           go on do it  i wonder who its
          gonna be

he passes right by jordan never meeting her eyes
instructor pyro steps up  hes the chiefs bulldog

                         instructor pyro
          down to bvds

the guys strip down to boxers  jordan settles for boxers
and jog bra

                         instructor pyro
          now face the pacific link arms
          and take a stroll

the class wades in  the first wave takes jordans breath
away  its february and the water is cold  when they
move out of instructors earshot

                         stamm
          what is it with the damn phone
          poles  we sign up for specrecon or
          gte

                         wickwire
          just trying to thin the herd
          thats all they want to do right
          now

some of the guys are glancing jordans way cashing in on
a cheap wet tshirt contest  jordan covers herself
instinctively  and hates the instinct  modesty isnt
going to get her through this

                         slutnik
          man  doesnt she know its rude to
          point

                         newberry
          wow  you see that girl

                         wickwire
          i got eyes newberry

                         slutnik
          one night  just one night in my
          room shed forget all about playin
          commando

                         england
          tone that shit down slutnik  you
          heard with they said

                         instructor pyro
          out of the water

the class breaks for the beach

                         the chief
          now make like sugar cookies and roll
          in the sand for me

the trainees hit their bellies and roll  indeed they
look like sugar cookies

                         the chief
          collect those poles gentlemen
          still a lotta beachfront you havent
          seen

groaning the trainees grab poles  jordans pole wet
slips from their collective grasp

and bangs stamms ankle  he howls through his teeth

                         england
          how bad  stamm

                         jordan
          we better get a medic over 

                         stamm
          no goddamnit  no

                         instructor
          up  up  up  up

stamm swallows the pain  poles go back on shoulders
looking like drunk centipedes the class staggers off down
the beach


ext  mud pit  coronado naval base  day

wallowing in mud the class does bellybusters atomic
situps  and the sadistic reverse pushup where
trainees lie of their backs place hands under shoulder
blades and push their crotches skyward

                         the chief
          pain is your friend  you ally  it
          will keep you awake in times of
          emergency it will tell you when
          you are seriously injured it will
          keep you angry and remind you to
          finish the job and get the hell
          home  but you know the best thing
          about pain

                         class
          no sir

                         the chief
          it lets you know that you arent
          dead yet

instructors roam rasping orders kicking students into
proper position  jordan struggles with the reverses

                         instructor pyro
          go regulation if you cant do the
          reverses oneil

she looks around  a lot of the guys are having trouble
with the reverses not just her

                         jordan
          thank you sir  but i like these
          just fine

                         instructor pyro
          not doin them very fine oneil

                         jordan
          ill try anyway sir

                         instructor pyro
          youll try what we tell you to try
          oneil  go regulation

she switches to standard pushups her face disappearing
into the ooze with every downstroke  soon the chiefs
boots slosh into frame  hes still looking for his human
sacrifice

                         the chief
          whos it gonna be  i just wonder
          who is it gonna be


ext  beach  coronado naval station  sunset

                         instructor johns
          on your belly on your back on
          your feet on your belly on
          your back on your feet

whistledrills  silhouetted against a lowering sun the
students flop around like docked fish


int  administration  coronado naval base  night

blondell is ending her shift  she shoulders a purse and
pauses at a window seeing

the trainees shuffling into formation like the living
dead  jordan is still among them


ext  the grinder  coronado naval base  night

                         the chief
          you have noticed a ships bell
          hanging at the west side of this
          courtyard  if at any time you
          feel you cannot continue with your
          training  that bell is your
          salvation  strike it three times
          and the ordeal is over

nervous eyes flick to the bell

                         the chief
          yes it is a long walk  so ill
          make it as easy as i can

he turns his back to the class

                         the chief
          now you dont have to watch me
          watching you break rank  because i
          know someone here wants to do it

camera searches their faces  there isnt one trainee here
who hasnt thought about it  including jordan

                         the chief
          now i know what youre thinking

                         slutnik
                  low
          im thinkin we could jump him right
          now

                         the chief
          can i really take 15 weeks of this
          bubonic asshole  if you dont know
          the answer to that question the
          answer is no you cannot  and
          that is another historical fact  so
          do it  admit you dont have what it
          takes admit you are out of your
          depth  or were all heading back
          to the beach right now
                  waiting a beat
          instructors  time hack

following the chiefs lead instructors lift their dive
watches

                         the chief
          six five four three
          two one hack
                  to class
          the time is now 12hundred  the sun
          is shining brightly  plenty of
          daylight left for another phonepole
          run

groans behind him  the groans give way to the sound of
boots breaking rank


int  administration  coronado naval base  night

blondells pov  of a lone figure crossing to the bell


ext  grinder  coronado naval base  night

quick closeups of miller slutnik wickwire turning to
watch someone cross the grinder  at least we know who it
isnt

close on the chief as the bell rings three times  he
turns around to find

stamm at the bell

for the first time the chief looks deadbang at jordan
was he expecting her

                         the chief
          leave your helmet there stamm
          back to the barracks

stamm drops his helmet and limps away

                         the chief
          the rest of you should remember one
          thing  the only easy day was today
          lieutenant wickwire  turning it
          over to you

                         wickwire
          cuhlass face right

they march off


int  mess hall  coronado naval base  night

deadass tired jordan slides her tray down the line
piling on food that means nothing more than raw calories
she heads for

a table of trainees one spot open  seeing her coming
the guys shift position  suddenly the table is full

                         england
          better look elsewhere oneil

jordan glares  none of them meet her eyes  she wheels
around  and now all eyes are on her watching her ass
walk away  feature slutnik the walking sperm bank

                         slutnik
          half a night lord just gimme half
          a night to set her straight

jordan tries another table  this one too becomes
abruptly full  as jordan leaves hold on miller  hes a
human eclipse  sixthree 220 the perfect commando
physique  instructors wish they could clone him

                         miller
          average woman is 25 percent body
          fat  thats onequarter fat man
          think about that

                         mccool
          nice distribution though

                         miller
          no way does she makes this program
          no way

after wandering the mess hall like a homeless person
jordan finds refuge at a table with female mess stewards
they look at her with blank faces  no understanding  no
compassion


ext  boq  coronado naval base  night

jordan walks in a bathrobe toweling her hair dry  she
fishes for keys at her door

                         voice
          its not so much that they hate
          you

jordan looks  someone is sitting on an outdoor table
smoking  he leans into the light so she can see his face
its wickwire the mid30s lieutenant who doubles as class
officer  hes dangerously handsome

                         wickwire
          theyre more afraid of you

                         jordan
          well now i feel so much better

                         wickwire
          it was made clear before you came 
          harassment equals career suicide
          cant say anything good so they
          dont say much at all  to your
          face anyway

                         jordan
          whose orders were those

                         wickwire
          it was made clear
                  getting up
          anyway stay ballsy  first weeks
          hell then it levels out  until
          sere training anyway  thats
          hellandahalf

                         jordan
          and how do you know that

                         wickwire
          made it to week 10 last time

                         jordan
          i didnt know they let you try
          again  especially at your age

                         wickwire
          youre kind of a surprise yourself

a faint grin from wickwire before he shadows back across
the courtyard that separates the two boq buildings
back across nomans land


int  jordans boq  coronado naval base  night

two beds  matching lockers  a desk a chair a mirror
all overwhelmingly dull

jordan drops the robe off her shoulders to take inventory
of her body  both sides of her neck are bruised from the
phonepole run  her back and thighs are sandburned
mirror cuts abound  shes already a mess

jordan uncaps some cologne  its a vestige of her old
life shes not going to surrender  she sniffs  savors
dabs  looks back in the mirror

and breaks out laughing  its like dropping a rose in a
cesspool


ext  silver strand highway  coronado  day

a photographer stands near a car parked just outside the
base  hes peering through a 600mm lens

photographers pov  focusing through cyclone fencing
panning past the sand dunes and finding greenclad
trainees gathered at an obstacle course


ext  obstacle course  coronado naval base  day

an explosion of sand  england and wickwire bellyflop
into a sand pit and speedcrawl under barbed wire  clear
they gain their feet and blitz toward

the rolling logs  they balancebeam their way to

the rope climb  racing to the top they reach a platform
and fling themselves down onto

the high poles  they land awkwardly losing their wind
and their grip tumbling into the sand pit below before

racing for the finish  the chief thumbs a stopwatch

                         the chief
          england 88 seconds  youre good to
          go for the slideforlife
          wickwire roll back till you get
          south of 90

                         wickwire
          fuck  yes sir

                         instructor pyro
          whod you kiss to get back in here
          anyway

wickwire dusts off and starts back for

the starting line  stepping up next is cortez the human
fighting cock  jordan lines up beside him and psyches up
for the first obstacle  and eightfoot sheer wall

                         instructor johns
          hang on here

he grabs something off a truck and positions it at the
base of the wall  its a little twostep platform

snickers moans from the guys  cortez can barely contain
his disgust

                         cortez
          aw what is this

                         jordan
                  mortified
          sir

                         instructor johns
          dont have to use it oneil but
          its gotta go out
                  calling out
          five four three

                         jordan
          i can make this wall without 

                         instructor johns
           two one mark

cortez blurs away  jordan starts a step late

cortez takes the wall clean  eschewing the twostep
jordan jumps right over it  but jumps too far out
because of it  she takes the wall awkwardly

intercut the others as they break rank to follow eager to
see cortez blow her off the course

                         class
          lesgo cortez lesgo go go

cortez bellyflops into the sand pit  and snags going
under the barbed wire

                         cortez
          shit of a saint

catching up jordan clears the wire without a hitch and
leads going into

the rolling logs  they both tightrope across nimbly and
bound on toward

rope climb  jordan starts up at a decent clip  but
cortez comes from behind like a chimp on white sugar
doubling her speed

                         class
          take her take her here cortez
          lookit that monkeyman go hoo
          yah hooyah

cortez reaches the top platform  now hes faced with

the high poles  hes seen others land sideways and pay
the price  trying another way cortez takes a flying
leap

and whumps down with legs astraddle  he tried to cushion
the landing with his hands  and failed magnificently
his balls took the brunt

jordan whumps down beside him with legs astraddle  and
shoots cortez a hey no problem look  she rolls off the
poles

and drops to the pit below  cortez lands right behind
now its a flatout sprint for

the finish line  he takes her at the tape

                         the chief
          cortez 93 seconds  oneil 94
          cortez do a little rescuerecovery
          on your gonads and line up again
          oneil move ahead

heading back to the starting line jordan wheels around

                         jordan
          say again sir

                         the chief
          you heard me  move on

                         cortez
          aw this is such bullshit

others grumble in commiseration  jordan flushes with
anger

                         jordan
          chief sir i dont understand
          why 

                         the chief
          educate her pyro

                         instructor pyro
          automatic fivesecond deduction
          which slips you under the wire
          its called gendernorming oneil
           standard procedure for all
          females in physical training
          courses  where you been the last
          few years

                         jordan
          what all females  if im the
          only 

                         the chief
          twice now i have said the words
          move on

he turns his back leaving no possibility of discussion
jordan stares after

                         slutnik
          cant live with them cant kill
          them  whats the point

                         mccool
          somebody throw a tent over this
          circus

                         wickwire
                  low to jordan
          just let it go  if its in your
          favor just shut the hell up and
          take it


ext  boq  coronado naval base  night

dressed in bathrobe jordan reaches her door  she pauses
to check

the outdoor table  no visitors tonight


int  jordans boq  coronado naval base  night

jordan pushes inside  and stops when she sees the little
twostep platform  that awful crutch  someone has put it
beside her bed

jordan wheels around to check


ext  boq  coronado naval base  night

the men building  slutnik and a few others loiter on a
balcony mirroring her stare


ext  coronado naval base  night

hastily dressed jordan marches across the base  her
march turns into an angry run as she cuts through parking
lots jumps hedges and finally reaches


ext  cos house  coronado naval base  night

an onbase bungalow  jordan bangs on the front door until
the cos scowling face appears

                         jordan
          pardon the hour sir  but you told
          me to come to you immediately if i
          felt i was being mistreated in any
          way

                         co
          didnt take long

he waves her inside


int  cos house  coronado naval base  night

                         co
          all right lieutenant give me a
          name and specifics ill have the
          xo file an action first thing in
          the morning
                  waits
          a name

                         jordan
          its you sir  and it started the
          day i came here

                         co
                  jolted
          oh really

                         jordan
          its this doublestandard the
          separate quarters the deferential
          treatment  its how you pulled out
          my chair and nearly served high tea
          the first time we met

                         co
          because i was civil now youre
          complaining

                         jordan
          i cant afford civility sir  how
          am i supposed to fit in with these
          guys when youve got me set up as an
          outsider  even if i make it under
          these rules i still lose because
          therell always be a flag in my file
           yeah she made it but  i
          mean really  why didnt you just
          issue me a goddamn petticoat to wear
          around the base

                         co
          did you just have a brainfart

                         jordan
          pardon

                         co
          did you just barge in here and curse
          at your base commander  if so i
          regard that as a bonafide brain
          fart and i resent it when people
          fart inside my home

                         jordan
          i think youve resented me from the
          start sir

now finally her opponent steps into the ring  and hes
a bareknuckle brawler

                         co
                  building
          what i resent lieutenant is some
          politician using my base as a test
          tube for her grand social
          experiment  what i resent is the
          sensitivity training that is now
          mandatory for my men the daycare
          center i have to build where an
          officers lounge used to be and
          the obgyn i have to keep on staff
          just so someone can keep track of
          your personal pap smears
                  drawing close
          but most of all lieutenant i
          resent your perfume however subtle
          it may be competing with the aroma
          of my fine threedollarandfifty
          nine cent cigar which i will
          happily put out this very instant if
          the phallic nature of it happens to
          offend your goddamn fragile
          sensibilities  does it

                         jordan
          no sir

                         co
          no sir what

                         jordan
          the shape doesnt bother me  its
          just that goddamn rotten stench

a dangerous beat  before the co disengages

                         co
          well  least now were talking the
          same language
                  a beat
          so one standard  is that what
          youre after

                         jordan
          same rules for everyone sir

                         co
          straight up

                         jordan
          across the board sir

                         co
          and if you just happen to wash out
          i wont have to contend with you
          bitchin to some hairychested
          female senator  and please note i
          did not identify any one in
          particular

                         jordan
          wouldnt dream of it sir

a deciding beat

                         co
          then good night

                         jordan
          so ill get a fair shot

                         co
          youll get everything you want
          oneil  lets see if you want what
          youre gonna get


int  barber shop  coronado naval base  day

jordan gets her hair cut to regulation length  its over
in seconds


int  administration  coronado naval base  day

jordan slaps down old room keys and new orders  blondell
scans the paperwork with deepening concern

                         blondell
          this some kind of joke


int  jordans boq  coronado naval base  day

jordan tosses her belongings into a laundry bag  she
slings the bag over her shoulder boots aside the hated
twostep on her way out


ext  boq building  coronado naval base  day

 marches across the nomans land


int  boq room  coronado naval base  day

 and bangs open a door  slutnik sits up on his bed

                         slutnik
          well who the shit you think you
          are  comin in here like that

                         jordan
          your new roommate

slutniks face curdles  jordan dumps her bag on an open
bunk and starts unpacking

                         jordan
          anybody usin these drawers here

                         slutnik
          hey hey hey  no possibility  you
          cant stay in here  you cant sleep
          right next to me

                         jordan
          funny the co says i can

she slaps orders on his chest continues to unpack

                         slutnik
          aw lookit this lookit this 
          shes bringin tampax in here
          cmon you got nothin but rooms
          over there

                         jordan
          that your desk  ill take this one

                         slutnik
          would you just get outta here

                         jordan
                  whirling on him
          listen sex ape  im here to stay
          and if you dont want me for a
          roommate or classmate you got two
          options  move out or ring out
          end of file

slutnik stalks out  jordan fires a look at the innocent
bystander here mccool  he was studying at his desk when
the fireworks began

                         jordan
          what about you mccool  any problem
          with the room assignment

mccool  an imperturbable black lieutenant  just goes
back to his manuals

                         mccool
          its not a job  its an
          adventure


ext  ocean  coronado naval base  night

start on flares igniting overhead  follow the flares as
they parachute down into the surf to illuminate

the class standing in one long line arms linked  as
black waves knock out their legs were reminded of show
girls kicking their way through some macabre review


ext  beach  coronado naval base  night

firing flare guns and working their bullhorns

                         instructor pyro
          58 degrees this morning  thats not
          a bad water temp really  if
          youre standing where we are

                         instructor johns
          slurred speech lack of proper motor
          control shortterm amnesia  all
          early signs of hypothermia
          advanced hypothermia is easy to
          detect in a classmate  hell look
          like hes dead

                         the chief
          body heat  in situations of extreme
          cold you can always count on body
          heat to keep you alive  and i do
          not mean your own  we will break
          you of the cultural barriers that
          dictate you should not invade
          another mans space  are any of you
          in a situation of extreme cold right
          now

intercutting trainees and instructors

                         class
          yes sir

                         the chief
          then why arent you all over the man
          next to you

the class pivots 90 degrees and starts to close rank
behind jordan montgomery aka flea hesitates
hes a bantamweight from georgia his manners bred into
the bone  he just cant find a delicate way to grab
jordan without mounting her

                         jordan
          just do it okay

                         instructor johns
          if you cant feel the other guys
          pecker you aint in tight enough
          i want nuts to butts

                         jordan
          come on montgomery

                         instructor johns
          flea  oneil  why is there a break
          in that line

finally jordan grabs flea by the neck pushes him ahead
and mounts him  the class closes down into a long human
snake

                         jordan
                  in his ear
          montgomery why do they call you
          flea

                         flea
          its really f lee montgomery 
          but that gets whittled down to just
          flea  for short maam

                         jordan
          so it really has nothing to do with
          actual brain size

                         flea
          no maam

                         jordan
          well flea i appreciate the respect
          you just showed me  but i dont
          need it and dont want it  not
          that kind of respect anyway  its
          just gonna hurt us both okay

                         flea
          ill work on it maam

                         jordan
          do that

                         instructor pyro
                  to the chief
          time

                         the chief
          check your watch pyro  seems fast

camera polls the grim bluelipped faces in the water
jordan feels flea starting to shake  badly

                         jordan
          hey  you okay flea

                         flea
          snot me  its him

two bodies ahead its the big bruiser miller whos
shuddering  jordan feels him shaking through flea

                         miller
          jesus my hands they arent
          workin right

                         newberry
          how long izis for

                         wickwire
          sposed to be 20minute intervals
          no more

                         newberry
          swear each times gettin longer

                         mccool
          this where you bailed last time
          wick

                         wickwire
          huhuh  but wasnt middla february
          last time either

                         flea
          how you doin miller  miller

no answer  bad sign  on shore

                         instructor pyro
          22 minutes

ignoring the chief lifts his bullhorn

                         the chief
          remember all this is completely
          voluntary  for any of you who dont
          want to continue instructor johns
          is now serving coffee and danish at
          the ambulance

a portable light comes on  indeed an instructor is
setting up coffee service

                         the chief
          any takers

                         slutnik
          hes the fuckin antichrist

                         mccool
          wick  they really got donuts over
          there  or just somea last nights
          dinner rolls

                         flea
          look like donuts to me

                         jordan
                  in disbelief
          whatre you guys doing  huh

                         mccool
          just askin

                         jordan
          what you gonna give it all up for a
          maple twist  how dumb you gotta be
          thats exactly what they 

suddenly the line rips apart  its miller breaking for
shore

                         class
          no

soon the dyke is bursting everywhere  four others break
rank following millers lead

the deserters stagger onto the beach  medics close in
quick draping them with blankets shining flashlights in
their faces asking braincheck question

                         medics
          tell me what day this is look at
          me now what city are you from
          sailor here look right here

a medic nods to the chief  no hypothermia  not yet

                         the chief
          you want another minute to think
          about this  huh
                  no response to
                   miller directly
          do any of you want to reconsider

avoiding his eyes miller wags his head

                         the chief
          johnson  get em out of my scan

its a death sentence  as the quitters slouch for the
coffee truck

                         instructor pyro
          by my watch which of course
          appears to be broken theyve been
          in 27 minutes without the benefit of
          protective gear

tight on the chief  scanning the remaining trainees
thinking about holding out out for one more

tight on jordan  knowing who hes waiting for  wondering
if she can outlast him

                         the chief
                  into bullhorn
          everybody out

with a shivering cheer the trainees stampede ashore
grabbing blankets trading bodybumps and highfives
jordan gets swept up in the esprit  theyve conquered a
common enemy  but when she tries to get highfived

the guys turn their backs  its a cold rebuff worse then
any water

hold tight on jordan  shivering  watching the guys drift
away  hating them

                         wickwire
          hey  way to gut it out

                         jordan
          thanks wick


int  instructors office  coronado naval base  day

the instructors are shuffling muster lists reorganizing
the class  bg the bell tolls again and again

                         instructor pyro
                  shaking head
          miller  thought the guy was made of
          depleted uranium  really didnt
          expect to lose him

                         the chief
          every class has its surprises pyro
          this onell be no different


ext  grinder  coronado naval base  day

blondell crosses the grinder with another female ensign
tall and striking  passing the bell blondell checks
on

the helmets lined up beneath  a dozen already

an os cadence call  then led by wickwire trainees
doubletime into the grinder uniforms drenched from a
beach run  among them still is jordan  it brings a
mona lisa smile to blondells face

                         instructor pyro
          change those clothes be back here
          in six minutes  and i am timing
          you

the class scatters  slutnik hits the brakes when he sees
blondell and her friend

                         slutnik
          jesus christ  and i only got three
          minutes apiece

                         england
                  jerking him away
          barkin up the wrong dress slutnik
          you aint their type

overhearing jordan snaps a look at blondell only now
realizing  their eyes meet

                         instructor pyro
          oneil  whatre you gawking at


int  cos office  coronado naval base  day

                         pr flak
                  reading newspaper
           last week at coronado  the
          woman identity unknown is believed
          to be the first female candidate for
          the elite special reconnaissance
          program  her presence could signal
          a shift in the navys longstanding
          policy that excludes women from
          combat positions

the pr flak drops the newspaper on the cos desk
its the san diego tribune  under the headline gi
jane a photo shows a chesty sailor running the obstacle
course

                         co
                  calling os
          im asking again  where is she

                         yeoman
          inbound now sir  had to pull her
          out of the dive bell

                         pr flak
          i have interview requests from two
          local tv stations  and a
          sociologist from uc san diego
          called wanted to know if she could
          examine the interaction between
          gi jane and the men

                         co
          a sociol  kill the interviews
          i dont need civilians nosin around
          in matters that are supposed to be
          covert in nature  just kill em
          before this whole thing gets outta
          con 

                         yeoman
          senator dehaven calling sir

the co gets an instant headache


int  senate barber shop  capitol bldg  day

                         co vo
          base commander turrentine speaking

in the senate barber shop dehaven is having her hair
colored  she holds a fax of the tribune article in one
hand a cell phone in the other

                         dehaven
                  hitting like a scud
          commander are you of the habit of
          letting photographers traipse around
          your base snappin their fill
          these were supposed to have been
          discreet test cases 

interrcutting

                         co
          senator they stand out on the
          public highway with telephoto
          lenses 

                         dehaven
           and now i got reporters from
          toadsquat iowa calling my office
          and askin what i know about this
          gi jane thing

                         co
           nothing i can do about it unless
          youre suggesting i infringe on
          their civil liberties  which id
          happily do if youll just trim a
          little fat off the constitution

                         dehaven
          are you truly mouthin off to a
          senior member of the senate arms
          committee  i mean ill give you
          points for style  just nothin for
          smarts


int  cos office  coronado naval base  day

the co doubletakes as jordan enters  shes sunburned
windburned sandburned chapped and chaffed bloody and
soggy  her dive suit leaks onto the floor

                         jordan
          see me sir

                         co
          you makin friends with the press
          lieutenant

he tosses her the paper  jordan scans the article as
dehaven continues over speakerphone

                         dehaven
          well seeins how this thing is out
          you let me handle the rpm  from
          this point forward i want all press
          matters coordinated via my office
          ill be goddamned if im gonna
          watch hayes pull flowers out of his
          ass and take credit for this one
          him or the president
                  aside to beautician
          this my shade  midnight mahogany
          cuz im comin dangerously close to
          lookin like ronald reagan here

                         co
          your prerogative senator

                         dehaven
          awright  hows our girl doin
          anyway

                         co
          standing right here in my office

                         dehaven
          jordan dear  how are they treating
          you

                         jordan
                  catching cos
                   eyes
          cant complain maam

                         dehaven
          hmmm  maybe ill ask when i see you
          in person

                         jordan
          uh maam

                         dehaven
          gonna be visiting that allwomans
          americas cup team in a few weeks 
          if i were a gambler id say dennis
          oconners days are numbered  but
          theyre in san diego so i thought
          id take a quick promenade of the
          base

deafening silence  we arent sure who dreads the idea
more  the co or jordan

                         co
          uh vip security arrangements
          generally take some time senator

                         dehaven
          security  what the hell you
          talkin about  your base isnt
          secure

                         co
          of course but theres more 

                         dehaven
          then set out the good plates well
          all have lunch  my office will
          follow up with details  jumping
          off now

phone goes dead  the co gives jordan a look one might
reserve for a lab technician who inadvertently unleashed
ebola upon the world

                         jordan
          sir i want you to know that i had
          nothing to do with any of this  not
          this article not 

                         co
          well all have lunch  good idea
          oh and lets be sure to invite this
          sociologist too  just in case we
          want to have a fucking bridge game
          afterwards

                         yeoman
          sir  secretary hayes calling

the cos headache becomes a migraine

                         jordan
                  backing out
          permission to leave sir

                         co
          permission to evaporate oneil


int  senate barber shop  capitol bldg  day

dehaven hands the phone to her aide  hes set up a
portable office in the next barber chair

                         dehaven
          think i overplayed it

                         dehavens aide
          congress and the pentagon share a
          lot of plumbing  theyll never know
          whose leak it is


ext  beach  coronado naval base  day

150pound rubber boats zodiacs litter the beach  the
class is breaking down into sixman crews

                         the chief
          boat five  wickwire cozad vinyl
          intagliata ayers and wise
          lieutenant wickwire is your senior
          officer  follow his orders to your
          death

                         instructor pyro
          get it up

crew five finds their zodiac hoists it onto their heads

                         the chief
          boat six  england oneil mccool
          montgomery cortez and slutnik
          lieutenant england is your senior
          officer

jordan rolls her eyes  at least two of the guys in her
crew are blueribbon misogynists  cortez and slutnik
dont like it any better

                         jordan
          ah cmon

                         cortez
          motherachrist

                         slutnik
          me  again

                         the chief
                  looking up
          somebody got a problem with the
          muster

                         jordan
          fine by me sir

                         cortez
          no problem sir

                         slutnik
          full of joy here sir

exchanging looks across their zodiac jordan and her new
crewmates lift the boat overhead

                         the chief
          boat seven


ext  beach  coronado naval base  day

with battle cries 12 boat crews charge into the teeth of
the pounding surf  some lose their boat to the first
wave others clear the surf and scramble aboard

                         instructor pyro
                  into bullhorn
          first crew to finish gets hot food
          and warm racks for the night  rest
          of you are digging hidesites and
          eating earthworms tonight


ext  ocean  day

beyond the breakers the zodiacs run parallel to shore
crews paddling furiously racing the wind the sun the
other crews  instructors shadow in power boats
stopwatches running


ext  boat six  ocean  day

                         mccool
          dont wanna be pickin no sandcrabs
          outta my ass tonight

                         england
          so shutup and stroke mccool

                         slutnik
          hooyah  hooyah

flea checks on jordan  she paddles hard really digging
in  flea grins  on some level he has to admire this
women

jordan catches the grin gives one back

ahead buoys mark the finish line  and just when it seems
victory is at hand

thwunk  something hits boat six  suddenly its losing
air  jordan torques around to see

the chief on a nearby boat speargun in hand

                         the chief
          your boat just hit razor coral
          what do you do now

                         england
          patch and pump  cmon  whose ass
          is on the kit

                         mccool
          i say keep paddlin  were
          almost 

                         england
          forget it mccool  pri one is to
          save the boat not win a race  so
          lets get on it

they flail to save their sinking boat  boat five noses
past stealing the lead  wickwire tosses jordan a passing
look  sorry but


ext  upper dunes  coronado naval base  night

up and down the dunes crews are digging hidesites 
sixman holes that will be their homes tonight  cortez
and slutnik are uprooting shrubs collecting camouflage
material

                         cortez
          four years i petition to get into
          this program  four years  finally
          get here and now its coed  such
          bullshit  now im gettin hammered
          just cuz shes on our crew

                         slutnik
          least you dont have to sleep with
          her every goddamn night

                         cortez
          tellin you id rather be the last
          class with balls than the first one
          with chicks

                                            cut to

ext  upper dunes  coronado naval base  night

jordan and flea fill sand bags to shore up the walls of
their hidesite  england and mccool shovel back to back

                         mccool
          had a grandaddy who wanted to be a
          navy man  wanted to fire them big
          guns on a bigass battleship  but
          navy said to him oh no  you can
          only do one thing on a battleship
          well whats that grandaddy said
          cook they said  now this aint
          100 years ago  im talkin united
          states navy middla world war ii
          and you know the reason they gave
          him  you know why they tol my
          grandaddy he couldnt fight for his
          country

                         england
          he talked too much

                         mccool
          negroes cant see at night  bad
          night vision

                         jordan
          youre kiddin me

jordan jumps in the hole ready to take over shoveling

                         mccool
          see you just the new nigger on the
          block oneil  thats all  and
          maybe you moved in too early

he climbs out  hold on jordan looking off down the
dunes seeing the other crews covering up and going
underground for the night  how the hell did she wind up
here  so far from home


ext  silver strand highway  day

a jeep speeds along the public highway carrying the co
back to base  when the jeep tops a rise

                         co
          what in gods name

ahead a halfdozen news crews are camped on the shoulder
all cameras are trained on the base


int  bedroom  georgetown apartment  night

camera finds navy dress blues laid out on a bed topcoat
draped on a chairback cnn on a television

                         cnn commentator tv
           is denying that it is
          considering changing its longheld
          policy of exclusion  but it isnt
          denying the presence of at least one
          female in a heretofore allmale
          program  dubbed gi jane by the
          media this woman is now undergoing
          commando training at the special
          warfare command center in san
          diego

halfshaven royce leans out of the bathroom in time to
catch

footage from coronado  a woman in navy greens is on a
beach run loaded down with backpack and m16  the news
footage zooms in freeze frames with the indelible image
that will be used over and over in coming weeks  woman
cradling rifle  madonna for the 21st century

                         royce
          goddamn  my poster girl

                         cnn commentator tv
          senator dehavens office still has
          not released the identity of the
          woman but dehaven is confirming
          that gi jane has outlasted many
          of her male counterparts in the
          program said to be one of the most
          grueling anywhere  joining us now
          on washington tonight for the
          feminist perspective is gloria
          allred live from 

royce snaps it off  he cant take anymore


int  beauart hall  washington dc  night

beneath the coffered ceiling of a great beauart hall one
of washingtons powertribes is celebrating  we find
gowned women tuxedoed men goldbraided naval officers a
swing band and

secretary hayes newly confirmed  he beams as he dances
with his wife  compliments and friendly barbs come from
all directions

                         compliments os
          congratulations mr secretary  say
          hello to the president for me
          maybe now you can change that carpet
          in your office teddy so what was
          the deal you made with dehaven  or
          was it the devil  always get them
          confused

                         hayes
          didnt you hear  effective
          immediately all navy vessels can no
          longer be referred to as she

brays of laughter

                                            cut to

int  beauart hall  washington dc  night

royce excusing his way through the crowd fixating on the
bar leading his dialadate winner by the hand
conversations drift into earshot

                         voice 1
           women are childbearers  life
          givers  now were going to make
          them killers

                         voice 2
           just dont have the upperbody
          strength

                         voice 3
          how strong do you need to be to
          launch a rocket  to push a button
          or pull a trigger

royce cant get away from it

                         dialadate
          are we going to dance

                         royce
          not right now

just yards from the bar a pentagon eringer snags royces
elbow

                         eringer
          commander royce  hows life across
          the river

                         royce
          little slow sir  whens the
          pentagon going to send me a good
          crisis

                         eringer
          ill check my outbasket in the
          morning  say do you know

the eringer turns to make introductions  but finds his
circle of friends embroiled in the topic du jour

                         circle 1
           but men have trained as athletes
          for 5000 years  women have been at
          it for what couple of decades  do
          we really know the limits of their
          strength

                         circle 2
          or their endurance  you know 30
          years ago women marathoners were 90
          minutes off the pace of the men
          now the womens time is probably
          only 20 minutes off

                         circle 1
          try 15

                         circle 3
          but what do female soldiers really
          contribute  i mean why is this
          gi jane there instead of a man

eyes drift to royce inviting him into the fray

                         royce
                  to dialadate
          you wait right here  ill get the
          drinks


int  mezzanine  beauart hall  night

heading upstairs with an iceless rum  royce finds a calm
and secluded place to get drunk in peace and quiet

                         voice 1
          take my word for it  its just not
          going to happen  not now not
          anytime soon

                         voice 2
          youre guaranteeing that

royce frowns  he thought he was alone  he tracks the
voices to a forcedair vent beside the chaise

                         voice 1
          i have it on unorthodox but reliable
          authority that combat positions will
          remain offlimits  despite whats
          happening with our babe in boyland

alarms go off in royces head  he moves quickly to a
railing looks down

royces pov  of two naval officers on the floor below
they stand beside a matching vent  its impossible to see
faces from this angle  but one man has a distinct bald
spot

                         naval officer voice 1
          well isnt that what these test
          cases are supposed to decide
                  thinking
          unless of course youre suggesting
          that gi jane is on her way to
          becoming jane doe

                         bald spot voice 2
          all im saying is that we wont be
          integrating  despite the rhetoric
          coming off capitol hill despite
          whats happening in coronado  and
          you did not hear it from me

                         naval officer voice 1
          hear what

a conspiratorial handshake  the men split up


int  beauart hall  washington dc  night

royce flashes down the stairs  hitting main floor he
looks around and then bumps into

                         dialadate
          there you are  can we please dance
          now

over her shoulder royce spies bald spot heading for the
cloak room  royce commandeers the nearest jo

                         royce
          lieutenant

                         jo
          yes sir

                         royce
          take a dance


int  beauart hall  washington dc  night

royce bobs and weaves through the crowd trying to keep
sight of

bald spot  pushing through the exit doors

only steps behind royce shoulders through the doors


ext  beauart hall  washington dc  night

and blasts outside intending to shake some answers out of
bald spot  but here royce finds

a dozen naval officers waiting for their cars  all of
them now wear caps

royce tries to check faces of the quickly departing men
but it could have been anyone

                                            dissolve to

ext  ocean  day

a highspeed transport seafox is slamming over swells
lashed to one side is a rubber life boat


ext  seafox  ocean  day

                         the chief
          crew six  stand by

                         england
          flea  cool  oneil  cortez
          slutnik  in that order  five
          second intervals  lets go

englands crew lines up for castandrecover drills  one
by one they speedroll off the transport

 and drop into the life boat  after quickly
stabilizing they roll off the life boat

 and disappear underwater like human bullets  england
is last to cast off


ext  ocean  day

jordan resurfaces  treading water she scans for

seafox  it makes a hard turn in the water and starts
back  the recovery rig  a big flexible loop  is
lowered into position

still hauling ass seafox picks up the trainees in reverse
order  england slutnik cortez  they each stab an arm
through the passing loop


ext  seafox  ocean  day

 and vault back aboard slick as hell

                         cortez
          hooyah  bettern sex in a car
          crash

but now theyre bearing down fast on


ext  ocean  day

jordan  she braces as best she can  as seafox thunders
past she stabs for the loop

and snags it with her hand  but only her hand

hanging on grimly jordan drags face down in torrential
water  her mouth gropes for clean air but cant find it
if she doesnt let go soon shell drown


ext  seafox  ocean  day

at the stern the chief spots jordan bobbing up in the
boats wake

                         the chief
                  to pilot
          next recovery  keep goin keep
          goin


ext  ocean  coronado naval base  day

coughing up water jordan watches seafox speed on toward
mccool and flea  they make textbook recoveries  shes
the only one who couldnt cut it


int  womens showers  coronado naval base  night

head hung jordan showers alone

                         the chief os
          you know the israelis

jordan recoils  christ how long has he been there  just
standing in the doorway

                         the chief
           they tried women in the 1967
          war  female soldiers

with forced calm jordan squeaks off the water and finds a
towel

                         jordan
          permission to get dressed sir

                         the chief
          it seems the men couldnt get used
          to the sight of women blown open and
          their viscera hanging from tree
          limbs  israeli men would linger
          over wounded females  often to the
          detriment of the mission often
          endangering their own lives  they
          dont use women anymore

                         jordan
                  moving closer
          sir someone mentioned you received
          the navy cross  may i ask what you
          got it for

                         the chief
          for pulling a 210pound man out of a
          burning barrack in saudi arabia

                         jordan
          i see  so when a man tries to
          rescue another man hes a hero
          but when he tries to rescue a woman
          hes gone soft

                         the chief
          could you have pulled that 210pound
          man clear lieutenant

she cant say yes  she wants to but cant

                         the chief
          females in combat situations impact
          unit cohesion  men fight better
          without women around  and that is
          an historical fact

                         jordan
          it also seems like a problem with
          the mens attitude sir  so maybe
          you should be sniffing around their
          shower room instead

she shoulders past  the chief gives her a few steps
before dropping his bomb

                         the chief
          england went out with a stress
          fracture  that puts you in charge
          lieutenant

                         jordan
                  offbalance
          mccools that same rank  were both
          jgs

                         the chief
          you were commissioned one month
          earlier which makes you the senior
          officer
                  passing her on his
                   way out
          remember  there are no bad crews 
          only bad leaders


int  artillery range  coronado naval base  day

trainees are getting familiar with m60 machine guns
firing short burst at downfield targets

                         cortez
                  pissed
          no operational experience and now
          shes callin the shots
          unbelievable

                         slutnik
          suppose shell wanna eat with us
          now

jordan overhears them bitching  she steps up to an open
slot  and proceeds to wail away with her m60 tracer
rounds blazing  her target vaporized she keeps wailing
madly taking out slutniks target then cortezs
then

                         instructor johns
          oneil oneil oneil

finally she stops

                         instructor johns
          one burst one body oneil  what
          the fuck you trying to do  spell
          your name
                  to class
          you are not infantry  your
          firepower is limited  excessive
          killing only risks compromise

reloading jordan tosses a look at slutnik and cortez
aint nobody bitchin now


ext  mess hall  coronado naval base  night

                         blondell os
          sere training coming up

eating at a table with other women jordan turns to see
blondell setting down her tray

                         blondell
          they take you away to san clemente
          island  half the guys quit when
          they come back  supposed to be just
          hellandahalf

                         jordan
          thats what i hear

                         blondell
          can i ask you somethin lieutenant
          how come youre doing this  i mean
          were kinda curious

                         jordan
          whos we

                         blondell
          just some of the women


ext  quarterdeck  coronado naval base  night

walking across the base

                         jordan
          i dont know if theres any single
          reason  but my father was navy
          and he had this oldtime recruiting
          poster in his den  it showed a girl
          trying on a sailors uniform while
          saying gee i wish i were a man
          id join the navy  was maybe 10
          years old when i first saw it and
          even then it felt wrong  made me
          mad  and i dont think a month has
          gone by that i havent thought about
          that poster  gee i wish i were a
          man

                         blondell
          ive been accused of that wish

                         jordan
          the woman i saw you with

                         blondell
          just a friend  we have friends
          too you know

                         jordan
          but are there i mean how many

                         blondell
          more than youd guess  its just
          that we dont hold coffee klatches
          if more then three of us get
          together at any one time the guys
          think its some kind of uprising

they laugh

                         blondell
          sounds funny now but its really
          not  we have to be careful  the
          navy still knows how to put on a
          witchhunt

reaching the quarterdeck they scan a message board
jordan finds a halfdozen phone slips for her

                         jordan
          royce


int  georgetown apartment  night

                         royce
                  into phone
          ive been trying you for five days
          dont they give you messages

                         jordan vo
          its hard to find time to sleep
          royce  much less keep up with my
          phone life

                         royce
          how hard they making it on you


ext  phone kiosk  coronado naval base  night

jordan sighs and slumps against the phone kiosk  where to
start

                         royce vo
          that bad

                         jordan
          i feel like theres men here
          theres women here  then theres
          men  but hey whatd i expect

intercutting jordan and royce

                         royce
          well not this  i was doing the
          pentagon scene few nights ago  got
          some fresh stuff  about you  you
          may be in a hostile camp  i think
          someone may be taking steps to
          ensure that you crash and burn

                         jordan
          me  why me

                         royce
          dont you know  how theyre talking
          about you

                         jordan
          i saw an article

                         royce
          i cant walk two blocks in
          washington without hearing about
          gi jane  youre all over the
          place and whether you wanted it or
          not the feminists are sizing you up
          for that poster

jordans face sours with an errant thought

                         jordan
          so why are you telling me this

                         royce
          big symbols make big targets
          jordan  i think someones gunning
          for you

                         jordan
          you know royce i got enough heat
          on me without you turning up the
          jets too

                         royce
          im only trying to warn you in
          case 

                         jordan
          well let me warm you  im going
          though with this  the more
          everybody fucks with me fucks with
          my head the more it just makes me
          want to finish  so dont expect me
          back crying in your arms any time
          soon okay

                         royce
          thats not what i want jordan  i
          mean it is and it isnt

                         jordan
          still cant make up your mind huh
          gotta go royce

                         royce
          jordan  you watch your ass

                         jordan
          sure  ill join the crowd


ext  air station  coronado naval base  night

a helo warms up on its pad

crew six approaches garbed in black wetsuits loaded down
with weapons and rucksacks  jordan is at the lead


int  helo  night

the helo is airborne  sitting on rucksacks trainees
slather their faces with green camouflage paint  over the
howling rotors

                         instructor pyro
          infiltrate establish your hide
          site record any movement of
          troops vehicles patrols  any
          activity inside your scan  if you
          are compromised you have two
          options  newberry

newberry is the new sixth man  hes young enough to still
have a hyperactive adams apple

                         newberry
          evasive maneuvers or radio for
          emergency extraction sir

                         instructor pyro
          if you are extracting be damn sure
          to follow procedures you have
          learned in your classroom training
          a helo cannot extract you from a
          wooded area  you must bring it down
          in a clearing  whats the minimum
          clearance for an mh60 black hawk
          mccool

                         mccool
          32 feet six inches sir

                         instructor pyro
          you will be penalized for early
          extraction but you will be
          penalized more for capture  trust
          me far more  survival  evasion
          rescue  evacuation  welcome to
          sere


ext  ocean  night

the helo swoops low over the water moon silhouetting
black figures helocast into the ocean


int  helo  night

last out jordan is poised to follow when

                         instructor pyro
          lieutenant  dont back down

jordan looks back  what the hell does that mean
offering no elaboration pyro signals go  jordan
springs clear


ext  ocean  night

 and knifes into black water

the helo patters away

an inky stillness overtakes the world

jordan activates a redlight beacon sweeps it around
revealing her position to

her crew  five black faces regroup around her

                         slutnik
          feel right at home mccool

they secure weapons atop their waterproof rucksacks
jordan checks a heatbearing compass

                         jordan
                  nodding direction
          southsoutheast  and i dont want
          to hear another word till were
          underground

pushing rucksacks ahead of them they start swimming
towards

a moonlit shoreline  halfmile ahead


ext  rocky shoreline  san clemente island  night

jordans crew reaches shallow water  they deflate their
vests and rucksacks  jordan trades her face mask for
nightvision goggles

nightvision pov  sweeping the rocks  nothing at first
then two hostiles appear patrolling the rocks

jordan motions down  six faces sink from sight

nightvisionunderwater pov  of the hostile patrol
moving on

they resurface  on jordans cue the crew sheds flippers
and begins scaling rocks  theyve made landfall


ext  hidesite montage  san clemente island  night

montage  racing the coming sun jordans crew builds
their hidesite digging feverishly filling sand
bags telescoping open a roof pole fanning out spars
laying canvas roof panels into place camouflaging the
panels sprinkling sanitizing powder around the
perimeter to ward off animals  intercut with

a snake slithering across the ground  as it nears the
hidesite

a knife whacks its head off

slutnik picks up the carcass kicks dirt over the severed
head  no trace


ext  san clemente island  day

camera pans the island awash in morning light  woodlands
lie distant  a road is the only manmade feature  until
in foreground we find a spotting scope poking from the
ground


int  hidesite  san clemente island  day

scope pov  of the road  fastattack vehicles approach

                         mccool
                  peering into scope
          got two favs moving south  i
          make four banditos aboard
          carrying h60 machine guns

jordan repeats the info into a digital taperecorder adds
the time

                         jordan
          newberry get a photo  south

                         cortez
          entering my scan now

                         jordan
          west

                         slutnik
          clear

                         jordan
          north

                         flea
          clear

scope pov  of the favs disappearing down the road

                         cortez
          favs clear

everyone relaxes  as much as six people can in a hole
five feetwide  mccool opens up mres meals ready to eat
slutnik guts his snake

                         mccool
          you mind  im trying to eat here

                         slutnik
          so am i

cortez finishes pissing into a tin pot  he transfers the
waste to a ziplock baggy offers the pot

                         cortez
          anyone

he looks at jordan  she eyes the pot tempted and nettled
at the same time

                         flea
          dont wanna evacuate cuz someone
          came down with uric poisoning el
          tee

abruptly jordan unzips drops her pants sticks the pot
under her  it raises eyebrows  its a far cry from when
she was covering up in cold water

                         jordan
          didnt even bitch about the seat
          did i


ext  san clemente island  day

wide view  as a lone figure appears on foot


int  hidesite  san clemente island  day

                         mccool
          what the got an unknown here
          100 yards northnortheast

they pile up at mccools scope  jordan bulls her way
through

scope pov  its a women  dressed in civilian clothes
she collects firewood  and shes coming this way

                         mccool
          she part of the training

                         jordan
          i dont know

                         slutnik
          she  theres another one

mccool takes a second look

scope pov  of the women drawing closer closer and
finally looking deadbang at us  she does an aboutface
and walks away  quickly

                         mccool
          shit  think were had

                         cortez
          smoke her

                         mccool
          i aint gonna shoot her

                         cortez
          only blanks  lemme do it

                         mccool
                  pushing him away
          hey  aint your call man

he looks to jordan

                         jordan
          pri one is to protect the mission
          if she represents a real threat we
          have to do it

pleased cortez slips his rifle under a roof panel

                         jordan
                  to mccool
          but did she see us  do you know for
          a fact that we are compromised

mccool doesnt  not for sure

                         jordan
          if not firing will only give away
          our position to hostiles in the
          area  now how smart is that

                         mccool
                  a beat
          mighta been civilian

                         newberry
          they got regular peeps on this
          island dont they


ext  road  san clemente island  day

the asphalt road shimmers with midday heat  suddenly a
troop carrier roars over a rise


int  hidesite  san clemente island  day

scope pov  of the troop carrier braking hard  hostiles
spill out the rear  and fan out all around us

                         cortez
                  at scope
          banditos on the east perimeter  150
          yards  shit she was part of it

                         mccool
          fuck me

                         flea
          whats the word eltee  were
          about one minute from a major take
          down here

hold on jordan heart skipping  did she really make the
wrong call

                         jordan
          all right fireandevade maneuvers
          drop everything but weapons and the
          prc radio  were gonna be high
          speed low drag all the way to the
          linkup site  ready

                         slutnik
          sure  now she wants to shoot

                         jordan
          move


ext  san clemente island  day

they come out of the hidesite like atomic locusts
splintering into three groups and laying down suppressive
fire as they blitz for

the woodlands

hostiles fire and pursue

flea is running flat out when the ground vanishes beneath
him  he goes down like a doped race horse  suddenly
exposed another crew scrambles into daylight  flea ran
right over their hidesite

slutnik yanks flea out gets him back on his feet


ext  woods  san clemente island  day

breathing like asthmatics jordans crew regroups at the
linkup site just inside the woods  flea comes in
hobbling  badly

                         slutnik
          this aint workin right

                         mccool
          whats our gotoshit plan oneil

                         slutnik
          this aint even workin wrong

a beat as jordan deliberates  she doesnt want to go out
like this

                         flea
          really dont wanna be captured el
          tee  heard some bad things

                         jordan
          fuck
                  snatching the radio
          basherbasher this is ground crew
          six requesting emergency extraction
          stand by for a prc fix


ext  sky  day

as a helo pirouettes in midair


ext  woods  san clemente island  day

jordans crew lopes through the woods searching for a
place to bring the helo down  right on their heels

artillery simulators thumpthumpthump illumination
grenades pop and flare  this may not be war but itll do
until the real thing comes along


int  helo  day

pilots pov  buzzing treetops searching


ext  woods  san clemente island  day

on the run

                         mccool
          32 feet six inches

                         jordan
          im lookin im lookin

finally they break into a clearing  is it big enough

                         jordan
          cool

                         mccool
                  doesnt care
          smoke it

jordan chucks a smoke grenade


int  helo  day

pilots pov  yellow smoke rises from the woods  we swoop
toward it


ext  clearing in woods  san clemente island  day

whirling smoke the helo descends  jordans crew breaks
early trying to get there the instant it touches down
but before they can

an fav crashes through the underbrush m60s barking in
the helos direction  the helo bounds away

jordans crew tries to retreat  but a second fav cuts
them off


int  helo  day

pilots pov  of the action below growing smaller and
smaller  jordans crew  surrounded  laying down
weapons  captured


ext  woods  san clemente island  day

jordans pov  brush slapping her face

crew six is being hauled through the woods hands tied
back boots around their necks pulled along by

the captors  we assume theyre instructors in camouflage
paint  but were moving so fast its impossible to be
sure


ext  pow camp  san clemente island  day

a pow camp disturbingly authentic  a dozen trainees
are already here held in pens of bamboo and barbedwire

flea mccool slutnik cortez newberry  all five get
tossed into a pen  jordan is pulled away

                         flea
          where are you hey  where are you
          taking her


ext  boxes  pow camp  san clemente island  day

jordan is thrown to the ground  her eyes go wide when she
sees a row of steel boxes nearby  theyre scarcely larger
then coffins


int  box  pow camp  day

hands push jordan inside the box  she has to curl up
fetally just to fit

                         jordan
          how long
                  no answer
          please how long

the lid bangs closed  a lock ratchets footsteps retreat
daylight sheets in through ventilation slats

when her eyes adjust jordan finds markings on the lid and
walls  scratchings made with a nail  the memoirs of
previous tenants

                         jordan
          dont know how much i can take
          a little taste of death save
          the nail
                  then the real kick
                   intheteeth
          its been three days now


ext  pow camp  san clemente island  night

as hostiles pull flea out of the pen


int  box  pow camp  night

a banging wakes jordan  are they coming for her  but
footsteps leave  a groan from the adjacent box

                         jordan
          who is it

                         wickwire os
                  a beat
          you know i had an apartment about
          this size once

                         jordan
          wick  they got your crew too

                         wickwire os
          intagliata was out chasing
          breakfast  they found his tracks
          well shit

a beat

                         jordan
          you really came back for more  of
          this

                         wickwire os
          when i was sittin behind a desk in
          washington it made sense somehow
          blame it on my big brother  he was
          specrecon  and the stories he used
          to tell

                         jordan
          if you got a good one wick

anything to get her mind off this box  out of this box
now intercut jordan and wickwire lying like fraternal
twins in their wombs of steel

                         wickwire
          one time he was doing a rekkie of
          the libyan coastline  this is
          like right before we bombed
          khadaffi into the past tense  so
          his crew does a nighttime infil
          maps all the big artillery
          placements and stuff then turns
          around to get the hell gone  but
          between them and the water are five
          libyan guards all armed to the
          nuts

                         jordan
          they had to kill em

                         wickwire
          nah they were deadass asleep  but
          on every guards chestthey left one
          marlboro cigarette  just a little
          calling card to say theyd been
          there  and could come back any
          time they wanted

                         jordan
          thats a good story

                         wickwire
          so the shit you gotta go through
          to get from here to there  brother
          said it was worth it  worth the
          training worth the divorce
          worth anything

                         jordan
          he was married

                         wickwire
          at first

                         jordan
          you got anybody wick

                         wickwire
          not me  you

it hurts to think about it  the potomac  the gunkhole
harbor  royce

                         wickwire
          oneil

                         jordan
          howd you make it last time wick
          howd you get through this part

                         wickwire
                  a beat
          last time i didnt

                         jordan
                  jarred
          lets keep talkin wick  just keep
          talkin to me


ext  newsstand  washington dc  day

royce stops for a newspaper  as he pays something else
catches his eye  he picks up

a people magazine  the grainy image of gi jane
fills the cover  a photo inset much clearer shows a
beaming dehaven  behind every great woman

                         royce
                  shaking head
          suitable for framing


int  corridor  nic  day

                         royce
          got time for a brainpick

reading as he walks a former cia spook looks up to find
royce in lockstep  it surprises him  not many people
here talk to him  unless theyre in trouble  the spook
is physically unremarkable except for a face that would be
right at home on easter island  this is a man whos seen
most of the worlds ills  and forgotten none

                         the spook
          subject

                         royce
          oneil jordan

                         the spook
          thought you two were fileclosed

                         royce
          you knew about us

                         the spook
          sorry  thought you knew i knew


int  situation room  nic  day

royce and the spook enter  the vaultlike door closes
emphatically  ensuring their privacy

                         royce
          computer  no transcription no
          comlink no datalink  in fact
          shutdown sequence 0niner08
          mark

all around screens go blank phone lights extinguish
they sit at the conference table  no computer  no files

just two guys doing headwork

                         the spook
          all right  so who stands to gain if
          jordan flames out in a big way

                         royce
          the eringers  full integration is
          gonna cost the services billions at
          the worst possible time  when
          congress is already swinging the
          axe

                         the spook
                  agreeing
          congress cuts military bleeds  but
          pentagons a big place  lets
          narrow the sights

                         royce
          the navy  theyve made it clear
          they dont want to pull missiles out
          of subs to make room for womens
          heads  whats it gonna cost to make
          a fleet of tridents coed   

                         the spook
          sabotage born of economics
          wouldnt be a first  but is hayes
          really going to start his watch with
          such a public failure

                         royce
          possibly  just to spite dehaven

                         the spook
          hmm  lets aim higher

royce blinks  whats higher

                         the spook
          the white house  if jordan wins
          dehaven wins in spades  why  well
          its been said that the only man the
          president fears  aint no man

                         royce
          the first female president

                         the spook
          dont for a second think she didnt
          leak this story  gi jane gives
          dehaven a symbol that taps into the
          biggest constituency of them all

                         royce
          women

                         the spook
          if you were the president wouldnt
          that put a little piss in your
          shoes

                         royce
          i dont know  seems

                         the spook
          this aint about some little soldier
          girl sloggin her way through
          commando school  the implications
          go way beyond

                         royce
          christ i dont want to see her take
          a fall  she thinks i do but

                         the spook
          i take it this file is still open

                         royce
                  shaping his words
          even tough i dont talk to her every
          day  i still talk to her every
          day  know what i mean

                         the spook
                  nodding
          okay so now work it from the other
          end  think about california  and
          how things might be handled there

                         royce
          i dont
                  scoffing
          what someone on base  a mole

                         the spook
          this is what you get for brain
          picking an old cia spook  but if i
          needed to control the outcome of
          this test case thats how id do
          it  a maninplace  makes
          everything very controllable


int  box  pow camp  day

jordans pov  the box opening  daylight assaulting us
blowing out our eyes  disembodied hands pulling us out


ext  pow camp  san clemente island  day

legs hobbled uniform soiled jordan is led past a row of
huts  she looks like she got hit by a train  and got
back up

jordans pov  vision still blown out  but inside the
pen we make out 40 trainees now  one guy wrings out a
sock and drinks from it

jordan moves past huts  volatile voices spill out as
trainees get interrogated

jordans pov  outside one hut we see flea  at least we
think its him  strapped facedown to a table sobbing
quietly he wears a slinky dress and whores makeup  they
broke him  and its an ugly ugly sight


int  interrogation hut  pow camp  day

                         the chief
          what is your fathers name

jordan seated  prowling the hut is her interrogator  her
tormentor  her chaperon through hell

                         the chief
          simple question lieutenant  no
          reason not to answer  what is your
          fathers name

                         jordan
          dad

                         the chief
          any brothers  sisters

                         jordan
          dick jane and spot

                         the chief
          are you hungry  whats your
          favorite food  well try to get it
          for you

                         jordan
          green eggs and ham  youre not
          going to get anywhere  you might as
          well put me in the cage

                         the chief
          you are in the cage oneil  right
          here right now

                         jordan
          should i be afraid

                         the chief
          right down to your worthless womb
          and ill tell you why  this is my
          island  my world  and here i can
          get away with shit that would get me
          arrested anywhere else in the world
          take another scan of my little joy
          boy outside  if i can do that to a
          navy seal whats gonna happen to
          you  huh

it makes jordan think  and yes it makes her afraid
continuing the psychological stripsearch

                         the chief
          why didnt you shoot the woman
          oneil

                         jordan
          wasnt deemed a threat

                         the chief
          she led us right to you  thats no
          threat

jordan rubs her head  so long ago  how did the call come
down

                         the chief
          would you have shot if it was a man

                         jordan
          no  yes  i mean depends on 

                         the chief
          the others already told me oneil
          they wanted to shoot but you
          wouldnt let them  because you went
          soft on another women 

                         jordan
          thats not right

                         the chief
          thats what your crew said  are
          they lying  or are you

                         jordan
          i think youre the liar

                         the chief
          im not the one who got five good
          men thrown in a bamboo cage  you
          wear the bars you made the call
          and you got your whole crew 

                         jordan
          we didnt know we were compromised
          firing would onlyve given away our
          position

                         the chief
          you think we should go easy on
          women oneil

she stares a beat knowing its a loaded question

                         the chief
          do you

                         jordan
          no

                         the chief
          im so glad we agree

with stunning ferocity he grabs her by the neck pushes
her out the door


ext  pow camp  san clemente island  day

 and throws her onto a table

in the pens all faces turn to watch  even instructors
stop what theyre doing as

the chief pushes jordans head down and jams up behind
her

                         the chief
          didnt you know youd be raped if
          you were captured  didnt you even
          think about that

                         jordan
          sure  just like your men do

                         the chief
          i think we oughtta practice it
          just so you know what to expect

he flips her over rips off her belt starts tearing open
her pants

                         jordan
          should i practice bleeding too
          sir  would that make me a better
          soldier

he covers her mouth  her whole face  with one hand

                         the chief
                  to the men
          any of you can stop this  just give
          me the location of one more hide
          site and it ends right here

in the pen

                         slutnik
                  wideeyed
          someones trippin out here

the chief jerks jordan up whirls her around like a dead
dance partner slams her facefirst into the pen to give
the guys a good look at whats happening to that pretty
face

                         the chief
          three crews are still on this island
          somewhere  who knows where

the men trade itchy looks  some do know

                         jordan
          dont do it dont do it

the chief throws her down like garbage

                         the chief
          whos gonna tell me  whos gonna be
          chivalrous and stop this abuse
          what you want to see her get
          mauled  is that it

the men shift anxiously  should they talk  behind the
chief jordan staggers to her feet

                         jordan
          dont tell him shi 

the chief whirls decks her a crescentkick  instructors
lurch forward instinctively

                         the chief
                  waving them back
          shes fine
                  squatting beside
          when i put you down oneil take
          the hint and stay down

she licks her bloody teeth  and considers kicking his
balls into his brainpan  instead she makes a move to get
up  he grinds her back down with a crowbar forearm

                         the chief
                  for her ears only
          i am saving your life oneil  you
          may not know it but i do  youre
          an inferior soldier a bad officer
          and i dont want you learning that
          inconvenient truth when youre stuck
          in a muddy bomb crater behind enemy
          lines and dont know how the fuck to
          get out  you get out now oneil
          seek life elsewhere  and if you
          cant do it in front of me do it
          behind my back

pinning her down with just his eyes he rises  and
starts away

behind him jordan struggles to rise

an anxious murmur races through the men  they dont want
to see this  they dont want to see her crucified

                         mccool
          down stay down

hearing the chief turns back to see

jordan wobbling to her feet

eyelock

                         jordan
          fuck you and the boat you rode in
          on  sir

tight on the faces of her crewmates  slutnik cortez
mccool  in their eyes a new respect  the chief see it
instructors see it  everyone does

                         the chief
                  to instructors
          were done here

beaten he walks right out of camp

wordless instructors open the pens unlock the boxes
wickwire rises like a vampire in daylight  but this time
he made it

a medic tries to help jordan but she pushes him away
walking drunkenly for

flea  she begins wiping the makeup from his face

                         jordan
          make you a deal flea  never tell
          me how i look  and ill never tell
          you


ext  piers  san clemente island  sunset

the chief chucks gear onto a transport boat  footsteps
approach  he knows its pyro

                         the chief
          you dont think shed be raped if
          she were captured  you dont think
          the threat of rape would be used to
          leverage the men

                         instructor pyro
          you broke a dozen training rules
          back there  before i lost count

                         the chief
          ive had it  just because they pay
          me like a babysitter doesnt mean
          im gonna be one

                         instructor pyro
          shes a trainee just like the
          others  why are you coming down so
          hard

                         the chief
          shes an officer  theres a higher
          standard

                         instructor pyro
          shes a women and thats why youre
          ridin her bareback

                         the chief
          of course it is  and im gonna stay
          on her until everyone realizes this
          is not some bullshit equalrights
          thing that real lives are gonna be
          lost  maybe mine maybe yours

                         instructor pyro
          i oughtta report you

                         the chief
          i think you probably would  if you
          didnt know i was right


ext  street  washington dc  day

as a limo moves  heads for the capitol building


int  dehavens limo  day

dehaven snags a buzzing phone

                         dehaven
          yes

                         dehavens aide vo
                  anxious
          did you hear

                         dehaven
          she made it through sere
          training  got a call this morning
          from 

                         dehavens aide vo
          not that  the white house just
          announced that it was sponsoring
          legislation that would in one
          stroke void all remaining elements
          of the 1948 combat exclusion laws

the phone suddenly weights a ton dehaven dumps it on the
seat beside her  hold on her disbelieving face

                         dehavens aide vo
          you there  senator


int  corridor  pentagon  day

handcarrying a report flag officer 1 hurries down a
corridor pushes through a door  hold on the door marker
secretary of the navy


int  secnav office  pentagon  day

                         hayes
          without telling us they do this
          with absolutely no lead time

at his desk hayes scans the report with a deepening
frown

                         flag officer 1
                  to hayes
          mr secretary if this bill
          passes

                         flag officer 2
          forget our threeyear plan  theyre
          rushing the cadence  well be
          forced to reorganize the navy from
          top to bottom  overnight

                         hayes
          what the hell is the president
          trying to do  steal dehavens
          thunder

                         flag officer 1
          i think its more important sir to
          decide what were going to do 
          since its apparent this issue is
          not going away quietly

                         hayes
          gi jane  and which one of you
          told me she wouldnt last a week
          huh

the flags squirm  shaking his head hayes moves to a
window that offers a stunning view of arlington national
cemetery

                         hayes
          20 years in the pentagon i finally
          rate an office with a window  and
          it looks out over the worlds
          largest graveyard  think its a
          sign


ext  grinder  coronado naval base  night

the bell  it reflects the moon  tilt down to reveal a
new batch of helmets  the casualties of sere  a
graveyard of its own


ext  the exchange  coronado naval base  night

jordan exits with purchases  her face is still bruised
from sere  with a minute to kill she peruses a
bulletin board casually  but a raised voice leads her
eyes to

wickwire  at a phone kiosk he hangs up emphatically  he
looks flustered when he spots jordan

                         jordan
          sorry didnt mean to 

                         wickwire
          thats okay  just an exgirlfriend
          and know i remember why

                         jordan
          first big night of liberty and no
          date  youre pathetic wickwire

                         wickwire
          maybe ill just head over to mcps
          with the others have a drink or
          four  dont wanna come do you

                         jordan
                  touching bruises
          i cant go out  not like this

                         wickwire
          i think you look beautiful

                         jordan
          thanks for lying  but youre the
          class officer wick and itd just
          be weird if we hook up  besides

catching up blondell exits the exchange

                         blondell
          sorry  forgot i needed oregano
          and

she sees wickwire  an awkward beat for them all

                         jordan
          do you uh know

                         wickwire
          sure sure

                         jordan
          were going over to her place to
          make salad and pasta  just you
          know nothing special

                         wickwire
          okay  well thought id ask

jordan and blondell head for the parking lot  hold on
wickwire looking after them  thinking it through


int  classroom  coronado naval base  day

charts are being passed around the room  every trainee
takes one including jordan

                         instructor johns
           underwater detonation devices
          employ mechanical timers and as
          such they are subject to variances
          due to water temperature  thats
          why when clearing mines we always
          use two timers  the charts now
          being passed out contain
          calculations you must memorize
          before

a military cop fills the classroom doorway  frowning
johns joins the cop for a private discussion

                         instructor johns
          oneil

                         jordan
          sir

                         instructor johns
          youre wanted at the cos


int  cos outer office  coronado naval base  day

jordan enters  the yeomans desk is unattended  noticing
the xos door open jordan peers inside to find

blondell  she looks scared out of her mind  before she
and jordan can speak the yeoman materializes

                         yeoman
          this way lieutenant  theyre
          expecting you


int  cos office  coronado naval base  day

                         jordan
          see me sir

the co and xo are both here

                         co
                  uncomfortable
          i dont know of any delicate way to
          say this lieutenant so i wont
          try  claims have been made that you
          have engaged in fraternization  of
          the samesex variety  specifically
          that you were
                  reading
           seen leaving the apartment of
          another female officer at such a
          time and in such a manner as to
          suggest conduct unbecoming

                         jordan
                  a beatlaughing in
                   relief
          sir if someone is suggesting that
          im a lesbian theyre wrong

the cos face remains grim  he isnt relieved

                         jordan
          theyre very wrong  and id like to
          know where you got this information

on the cos nod the xo opens an adjoining office
wickwire enters  hes stiff as a groom on a wedding cake

                         wickwire
          im sorry oneil  but as class
          officer its my obligation to
          report all violations

                         jordan
          this is insane  youve got no
          proof

                         xo
                  from report
          you were seen leaving ensign
          blondells apartment at
          approximately 0200 whereupon
          physical affections were exchanged
          in public

                         jordan
          we hugged

                         xo
          in addition you have been seen
          frequenting the base exchange the
          mess hall the 

                         jordan
          because the men didnt want me
          eating with them  jesus christ
          lets get this right

                         co
          thats enough  everybody
                  to wickwire
          rejoin your class lieutenant

                         wickwire
                  only to jordan
          i wish i didnt have to do this
          jordan

                         co
          dismissed lieutenant

wickwire exits

                         jordan
          sir i just want you to know that
          this is either a gross mistake 
          or someones vindictive bullshit
          in no way did anything happen
          between ensign blondell and myself
          were just friends

                         xo
          so youre saying the charges have no
          validity whatsoever

jordan opens her mouth to confirm  and hesitates
realizing where this might be headed  what the collateral
damage might be

                         jordan
          im saying were just friends

                         co
          i find this as distasteful as you
          lieutenant  but if its on my desk
          its on my shoulders  theres going
          to be an inquiry  it will not be
          quick and it will definitely not be
          pretty  you should prepare
          yourself

                         jordan
          sir please if theres any way to
          do this without dragging everyone
          through the mud

                         co
          i dont see how oneil  dismissed

jordan moves to the door  again she makes eyecontact
with blondell  now we understand why shes so scared
theres a witchhunt brewing

                         jordan
                  turning back
          sir  if tomorrow i was not under
          your command would the inquiry
          still go forward

                         co
          im not sure what 

                         jordan
          would you have the discretion to end
          it right then and there

shes offering her own head on a silver platter  and the
co actually hesitates before answering

                         co
          i believe so


ext  grinder  coronado naval base  day

mccool and flea exit a classroom with other trainees
they spot jordan approaching

                         mccool
          so whatd he want  oneil

she passes them robotically  flea realizes where shes
going

                         flea
          oh no no no no no

they lurch after her grabbing her stepping in her way

                         the chief
          stand fast

mccool and flea jerk to a stop  the chief has emerged
from the instructors office  helpless they watch as

jordan mounts the stairs to the bell takes up the
baton and hits the bell like a tyko drummer

ring one  on the pained faces of her crewmates

ring two  on the chief  taking no joy in it  just
accepting it as inevitable


ext  the quarterdeck  coronado naval base  day

ring three  on wickwire as he walks across the base  his
regrets are obvious

                                            fade out

fade in

ext  upriver  the potomac  day

the ice floes are gone  the river banks are budding
green  soon camera finds a power boat making its way
upriver  a lone figure sits on the prow


ext  power boat  day

its jordan  dressed in civvies gunnysack between her
legs shes back in virginia with nothing more than what
she left with  around a river bend appears

the gunkhole harbor  home


ext  gunkhole harbor  potomac  day

the boat docks  jordan springs clear waves a wornout
thanks starts up the dock  but now she comes to a stop
seeing

royce  stepping out of the house

extremely wide  river shimmering behind them they meet
on the dock  a charged standoff  where do they pick up
can they pick up  then jordan drops her gunnysack and
steps into his widespread arms  royce wraps her up as if
to never let go

for the first time in this whole ordeal jordan begins
crying sobbing uncontrollably

                         royce
                  in her ear
          i want to kill them i want to
          kill the guys who made you cry like
          this


int  covered porch  jordans house  sunset

an hour later  sharing a quiet moment jordan and royce
cradle tea mugs while sitting on the rear porch that
overlooks the potomac and a fiery sunset

                         jordan
          all i wanted was an honest chance
          and if i couldnt get it i couldnt
          stay

                         royce
          and this class officer
          wickwire  you think he was just
          trying to get even  striking back
          for

                         jordan
          maybe  though it didnt seem like
          he was getting any satisfaction out
          of it  almost like
                  a beat
          did i say he was class officer

                         royce
          almost like someone put him up to
          it  okay who

                         jordan
          no shortage of suspects

                         royce
          the chief  or maybe even
          turrentine  your co

she looks at him sidelong

                         jordan
          royce  tell me you didnt keep a
          file on me


int  living room  jordans house  day

close on multiple files being pulled out of a briefcase
one contains clippings  gi jane photos editorials
political cartoons  another holds records of coronado
personnel  jordans crewmates instructors the base
brass

                         royce
          somebody was yankin your stings
          jordan  maybe from 3000 miles
          away  i wanted to know who  i still
          do

she shakes her head resisting

                         royce
          cmon jordan  do the headwork with
          me

                         jordan
          its done with royce  let it go

                         royce
          someone screwed you over like this
          left unanswered charges hanging over
          your head and youre not gonna
          fight back

                         jordan
          im tired of fighting back  i just
          wanted to come home and be safe and
          have you here and the river there
          and just forget the rest of the
          world okay

                         royce
          well before you crawl off to die
          jordan give me five minutes of good
          headwork

agitated she walks away  bg a phone rings until the
machine picks up

                         royce
                  pulling a file
          john james urgayle  the chief

                         jordan
          what about him

                         jordan
          instructors typically pull three
          year assignments  this guys in and
          out in one year  your year  that
          sound right

                         jordan
          sounds like an amazing coincidence

                         royce
          or like maybe he was baby sitting a
          problem child for the navy

                         jordan
          i dont know i dont care

                         royce
          well pardon me if i do  now who
          else  who couldve leveraged a
          class officer like that  cmon
          jordan keep your head in the game

under dialog we hear some of the incoming call

                         dehavens aide vo
           just got word today  the
          senator wants you to know that shes
          disturbed by the matter and shell
          be looking into it carefully to make
          sure you were treated fairly  if
          you need to reach us were here in
          washington 2022243121

a hangup  something stirs in jordans memory

                         jordan
          in washington

                         royce
          what

                         jordan
          wickwire said he was drydocked in
          washington between stints at
          coronado

we can see her mind gathering speed  royce switches files
quickly

                         royce
          wickwire thomas dane second
          run at coronado and correct they
          had him stashed in the
          appropriation liaison office
          whatever that is

                         jordan
          you dont crap out of specrecon and
          get another shot without
          dispensation from someone up in flag
          country
                  a revelation
          hes got a sea daddy somewhere

                         royce
          id sure like to know who

                         jordan
          yeah  me too


int  administration  coronado naval base  day

answering a phone

                         blondell
          administration ensign blondell

                         jordan vo
          dont say my name

                         blondell
          whos
                  brightening
          lieuten 

                         jordan vo
          or rank  but can you do me a favor
          and pull a transfer order

                         blondell
          okay but you didnt have to do
          what you did  not for me

                         jordan vo
                  appreciative
          wickwire thomas dane  see what
          you can find

                                            cut to

int  administration  coronado naval base  day

file in hand blondell returns to the phone

                         blondell
          got it

                         jordan vo
          who signed as his sponsoring
          officer

                         blondell
          uh dont see it  theres no
          signature  but hang on  theres a
          note to see addendum  checking

she finds a crisp sheet of stationary out of place among
the smeared government forms

                         blondell
          wow

                         jordan vo
          whatd you find kathy

close on the stationary  it bears an image of the capitol
dome

                                            match cut to

ext  capitol bldg  washington dc  day

the real capitol dome  a flag is being raised over the
senate wing


ext  capitol bdlg   washington dc  day

a car parks at barricades  jordan and royce emerge both
in uniforms

                         dc cop
          dont even dream about leaving that
          vehicle there

                         royce
          government car  tow it if you
          want  just point us to dehavens
          office first

not waiting for directions jordan takes the capitol steps
two at a time  weve seen this look on her face before 
and last time she nearly knocked the grinder bell into
orbit


int  corridor  capitol bldg  day

jordan and royce move quickly down a corridor eyes
hunting passing capitol guides and their tourists  soon
they find

dehavens office  a navy captain exits with paperwork
hasty salutes

                         royce
          captn

                         navy captain
          commander

the captain moves on  royce holds in the doorway a beat
memory nagging him  again he looks at

the captain  he has a distinct bald spot

                         royce
                  to jordan
          get started here  ill catch up

picking up where he left off a few weeks ago royce
follows bald spot around a corner


int  private staircase  capitol bldg  day

 down a private staircase


int  another corridor  capitol bldg  day

 and through a door marked naval appropriation liaison
office  its not 30 seconds from dehavens door


int  foyer  dehavens office  capitol bldg  day

                         secretary
          your name again

                         jordan
          lieutenant jg oneil

in a side office dehavens aide overhears  he rises
quickly and enters the foyer

                         dehavens aide
          ms oneil  yes of course  im
          douglas champeau  unfortunately
          the senator is in chamber right now
          how can i help you

                         jordan
          what chamber  which way is that

                         dehavens aide
          i mean shes on the floor of the
          senate

                         jordan
          okay which way

                         dehavens aide
          she really cant be disturbed  but
          if you care to wait ill find you
          an office with a phone  it might be
          several hours but 

a tourist pokes in

                         tourist
          scuse me but im here to pick up
          gallery tickets  are you

                         dehavens aide
          see the secretary please

over the aides shoulder jordan watches as

the tourist claims tickets  hold on the bureau near the
secretarys desk where the tickets are stored


int  senate chamber  capitol bldg  day

on the chamber floor senators mull about consulting
aides polling party mates  pages place microphones and
fill the ceremonial snuff boxes readying the room for
session  among the activity we find

dehaven  caucusing with another democrat

                         jordan os
          senator dehaven

dehaven looks behind her  nobody

                         jordan
          dehaven

now she looks up to behold

jordan standing in the gallery  staring down on dehaven
as she is its hard to read anything into her expression
but open disdain

drawn by jordans voice a capitol guard hurries down the
gallery steps  royce runs interference

                         jordan
          we can talk here or we can talk
          outside senator  you tell me

on the floor half the us senate stops what its doing
and looks up

in the gallery the guard is thrown offbalance by the
naval uniforms  do royce and jordan belong here or not
confused he looks for guidance from

dehaven  she notes cspan cameras swinging jordans way
summoning a page

                         dehaven
          cloak room  ill meet her there
          just her


int  cloak room  capitol bldg  day

towering doors swing open  dehaven appears face pleasant
but harried

                         dehaven
          jordan  i always hoped wed get
          together  though just now im
          gearing up for a childcare vote
          that 

                         jordan
          lieutenant thomas wickwire

about to hug jordan dehaven stops awkwardly

                         jordan
          you know him

                         dehaven
          sounds familiar

                         jordan
          it should  you nominated him for
          specrecon just three days after you
          nominated me

                         dehaven
          jordan  might we do this over lunch
          tomorrow  i do very much want to
          talk but now is scarcely 

                         jordan
          did you set me up  did you set me
          up just to see me fail

                         dehaven
          absolutely not

dehaven glances back at the doors to the senate chamber 
the open doors  walking jordan a few steps away

                         dehaven
          wickwire was there to help  to be
          my eyes on the inside to make sure
          you were getting a fair shot  at
          least that was the intent

                         jordan
          what changed

                         dehaven
          should probably ask him that

                         jordan
          if i have to ask again senator
          ill be asking in front of cameras

its a threat dehaven doesnt appreciate  the senate
doorkeeper appears

                         doorkeeper
          madam senator  your esteemed
          colleagues are requesting 

                         dehaven
          two seconds walter
                  answering jordan
          in 1981 the supreme court was
          asked to rule on the issue of women
          in combat positions  the court
          cited the 1948 combat exclusion laws
          as a legal foundation for keeping
          women ineligible  that decision
          held for all these years  until
          the white house 10 days ago moved
          to have the exclusion laws voided
          to demolish that legal foundation

                         jordan
          so  isnt the president jumping on
          your bandwagon

                         dehaven
          what he did was light the bandwagon
          on fire  because he knows what i
          know  that american families are
          not prepared to put their daughters
          in harms way

                         jordan
          you dont know that

                         dehaven
          in face i do  roper harris
          gallop  they all come back the
          same

                         jordan
          what are you saying  that a womens
          life is more valuable than a mans
          that a womens death hurts a family
          more

                         dehaven
          im saying its not going to happen
          not when the president is set to
          turn this into a thirdrail issue
          should i choose to ever campaign
          against him  he will fry me six
          ways to sunday for sending daughters
          and young mothers off to war  and
          quite possibly for bringing them
          back in body bags

jordan shakes her head in disbelief  she has met the
enemy  and she is us

                         jordan
          you were never going to let women
          serve in combat  you always had a
          safety net  or thought you did

                         dehaven
          jordan  i dont expect you to fully
          understand this  but sometimes
          theres more to be gained from the
          fight than the victory

                         jordan
          so the rhetoric gets you headlines
          but the reality gets you in trouble

                         dehaven
          the reality is this  we send far
          too many men off to war  i dont
          need to compound the problem with
          women
                  off jordans look
          can you honestly tell me you wanted
          that life  squatpissing in some
          thirdworld jungle with 

                         jordan
          i wanted the choice  the chance to
          prove myself my skills my work
          me  thats how it shouldve been

                         doorkeeper
          madam senator once again i must 

                         dehaven
          just hold the goddamn clock walter

not happy about it the doorkeeper reaches into an alcove
grabs a broom he keeps around for just these occasions
he enters the chamber


int  senate chamber  capitol bldg  day

 and moves behind the rostrum  holding the broom by
the bristles the doorkeeper stands on tiptoes

and uses the broom handle to turn back the senate clock by
three minutes

senators groan  its an old trick played by senior
members  and they all hate it when it happens to them


int  cloak room  capitol bldg  day

                         dehaven
          i once promised you a fast ticket
          jordan and i always meant to make
          good on that  come work for me  i
          can always use a hardcharger on my
          team

                         jordan
          you promise wickwire a fast ticket
          too

                         dehaven
          ive had no direct communication
          with him since this whole thing
          began  and thats quite verifiable

                         jordan
          im sure it is

                         dehaven
          youll think about my offer

                         jordan
          you know i wonder what the secnav
          would think about it  if i spoke
          with him

                         dehaven
          well i spoke with mr hayes this
          morning myself  and told him the
          deal was off  no more test cases
          he was only too happy to oblige
                  dangerously low
          dont play politics with me little
          darlin  youd be up way past your
          bedtime

                         doorkeeper
                  distraught
          madam senator please

                         dehaven
          ill call you in a few days

she flashes a winning smile and turns away  as the
chamber doors start to close behind her

                         jordan
          so i wonder what the president would
          think

the last image we have of dehaven is her whirling back
startled  the doors boom closed in her face


ext  cos house  coronado naval base  night

through a window we see the co with a phone pressed to
his ear  he stands at attention even though wearing a
bathrobe  halfaudible through the glass

                         co
          yes sir  no im not saying it
          would be impossible sir just
          yes sir  no sir  yes sir  i can
          appreciate that sir  good night
          sir


int  cos house  coronado naval base  night

the co hangs up and looks to jordan heretofore unseen
she waits anxiously

                         co
          well if you had to go over my
          head lieutenant thats the way to
          do it  christ nothin like a 0200
          call from the commander and chief to
          get the bowels movin

                         jordan
          sir  what did he say

                         co
          basically  he asked me if i could
          unring a bell


ext  grinder  coronado naval base  day

start on the helmet graveyard  hands enter frame to
reclaim one helmet in particular  tilt up on jordan
back in the grinder back in navy greens

the specrecon class is here  crewmates gawk like stone
idiots as jordan takes her old place in the lineup

                         co
                  to class
          one of you here understands better
          than anyone what this is all about
          someone who has engaged in conduct
          unbecoming  someone who knows i
          would hope what he must now do

close on wickwire  feeling the heat  wondering if they
really know who it is  now the co parks himself right
in wickwires face

                         co
          and unless that someone takes the
          honorable way out in the next 10
          seconds  i will make certain he
          faces action under the uniform code
          of military justice

wickwire breaks rank and heads for the bell  he slows
when reaching jordan considering an apology he knows
would be inadequate

                         jordan
          just walk away and never stop

he does  as wickwire rings out

                         co
          it seems we have an opening for
          class officer  any nominations

eyes swing to jordan  way ahead of them

                         co
          all those in favor

a chorus of ayes  jordan puddles up

                         co
          chief urgayle turning it back over
          to you

on his way to the front the chief stops to check in with
jordan

                         the chief
          well im trying to figure out if
          youre stupid unlucky gluttonous
           or some new alloy of all three

                         jordan
          good to see you again too sir

                         the chief
          okay oneil  so youve impressed
          all the others  now try me


ext  coronado bridge  day

the morning sun is an orange ball balanced on the coronado
bridge  in silhouette pelicans circle some divebombing
into the bay below  suddenly a helo howls across the sun
scattering the birds as it heads offshore


int  helo  day

                         the chief
                  setting watch
          four three two one hack

flea mccool slutnik cortez newberry jordan  inside
the airborne helo they synchronize their dive watches

                         the chief
          final assignment  each crew will be
          dropped 12 miles out  between you
          and the shore is a network of mines
          and underwater obstacles  you will
          clear the obstacles you will tag
          the mines with your crew number
          you have until 18hundred to make
          landfall


ext  ocean  day

as the helo swoops down onto the ocean deck


int  helo  day

the trainees doublecheck wet gear and survival vests  on
jordans nod they push an inflatable life boat ilb to
the helo door  its rolled up into a rubber log

                         the chief
          remember  the one thing you can
          count on in any mission is that
          anything mechanical will fail  if
          you get stuck out here do not call
          me for you will no longer be in my
          class  try the coast guard

the helo pilot slows to five knots  the chief gives
jordan the goahead nod

                         jordan
                  to her crew
          onesecond intervals  go


ext  ocean  day

the ilb splashes down into the ocean  jordans crew helo
casts in after it

from the door of the circling helo the chief watches
as

jordans crew swims to the ilb bobbing in the swells
flea turns a handle on the co2 tank meant to inflate the
boat  nothing happens

                         flea
          cmon cmon

cortez tries to help  the handle spins in his grip

                         cortez
          this tanks not gonna cut it el
          tee  handles stripped

jordan looks skyward  100 feet overhead the chief gives
her a parting salute as the helo lifts away

                         slutnik
          i just wonder how that happened

                         jordan
          cortez see if you can dig out the
          tools without losing the rest of out
          gear  try a wrench on that thing


int  helo  day

the helo turns into the morning sun  pilot and copilot
drop visors

pilots pov  of dots in the sun  what the hell are try

smack  something hits the windscreen splattering red and
brown

                         the chief
          what happening

                         pilot
          fucking pelicans  hang on

he starts to bank clear  but not fast enough


ext  helo  day

more birds peppershot the helo  one shreds through the
main rotor another through the tail rotor  another bird
gets sucked right into

the main turbine


int  helo  day

a sharp bang a wicked shimmy and now they whole helo
loses power

                         pilot
          holy lets gyrate

as the pilot wrestles controls the copilot rigs for
autogyration  but the bank they started is working
against them  the helo is coming down badly circling
like a huge steel feather

braced the chief looks out the side door  and sees
ocean rushing up at him  fast


ext  ocean  day

                         mccool
          what the shit is

jordan whirls  shes just in time to witness

the helo hitting the water  in seconds its gone

a stunned beat  we never knew the ocean could be this
quiet  when the anesthetic of shock wears off

                         slutnik
          you dont suppose this is just part
          of

                         jordan
          flea  keep your eyes on that spot
          mark it mark it  cortez  what the
          hell you waiting for

cortez torques his wrench hard  co2 flows into the ilb
inflating it  the crew scrambles aboard  jordan digs
like a dog to find a radio

                         jordan
          base this is crew leader six  we
          have a downed helo 12 miles west
          south west of base with three
          aboard  repeat we have a downed
          helo with three aboard

slutnik yanks a starter cord  their outboard motor roars
to life  the boat does a donut in the water and blasts
away

                                            cut to

ext  ocean  day

the ilb powers over swells  flea is perched on the bow
nose to the wind like a hunting dog

                         flea
          cut it  cut it here

slutnik motors down

                         flea
          close as i can get eltee

                         jordan
          flea cool cortez newman  take
          your minis hit the water  go go

they grab masks and minitanks and dive in like dolphins
jordan snaps up the radio

                         jordan
          base this is crew leader six  what
          is your eta on that rescue helo
          over

                         base vo
          crew leader we have a medevac
          rerouting from long beach but no
          other helos prepped at this time
          seafox one and two are launching
          now  over

a beat

                         jordan
          base dont think you copied me  we
          are 12 miles out  seafox tops out
          at 30 knots which makes it a no
          show for 18 minutes  over

                         base vo
          you copied right crew leader
          were looking for options ourselves

                         slutnik
          maybe we should call the coast
          guard

                         jordan
          shut your hole slutnik

                                            cut to

ext  ocean  day

mccool surfaces

                         mccool
          visibility drops dead at 40 feet
          if theyre deeper than that

the others surface and swim in

                         cortez
          nobodys comin outta that crash
          eltee  nobody

a grim beat  and then a crackle on the radio  with a
voice seemingly from the far side of the moon

                         the chief vo
          base this is basher one  ive got
          a small problem here  do you copy

jaws drop

                         jordan
                  into radio
          basher one this is oneil  we are
          barely reading you  what is your
          situation


ext  crashed helo  underwater  day

50 feet down the helo lies canted on a reef shelf


int  crashed helo  underwater  day

wedged into a tortured maze of hydraulics and equipment
we find the chief operating out of an airpocket near the
windscreen  the pilot is dead impaled on his cyclic
stick head submerged  the copilot is still alive
barely  the chief struggles to keep the mans head up as
he keys a survival radio

                         the chief
          got one other heartbeat here looks
          touch and go  ive got a
          questionable leg


ext  ocean  day

                         the chief vo
          managed to activate the elb  if you
          just radio base and let them know
          theyll fix on that  oh and make
          sure they send a helo with a winch
           doors blocked by a reef  over

                         jordan
          chief sir  rescue team wont be
          here for 15 minutes  whats your
          air situation  over

                         the chief vo
          say again  how many micks

                         jordan
          15 sir


int  crashed helo  underwater  day

the chief sizes up his air pocket

                         the chief
                  into radio
          that may not be adequate


ext  ocean  day

                         flea
          if we could just fix on him

                         mccool
          beacons a nogo for us

                         jordan
                  into radio
          chief  did i see a flare box
          aboard  and can you get at it
          over


ext  crashed helo  underwater  day

the chief props up the copilots head  gulps air  ducks
underwater to grope through wreckage  only now do we see
that questionable leg he was talking about  its
snapped at midcalf blood rivering out


ext  ocean  day

                         the chief vo
          got it

                         jordan
                  into radio
          show us where you are chief


ext  crashed helo  underwater  day

again the chief goes below water  he finds a small breach
in the fuselage sticks the flare launcher through
and pulls the trigger

with a magnesium flash the flare launches


ext  underwater  day

 streaks toward the surface


ext  ocean  day

 and arcs into daylight 50 yards behind the ilb

                         flea
          six oclock  marking marking

                         jordan
          spotted you chief  pri one is to
          slip you some air so were coming
          down with a tank  just something
          until the ateam shows  over

an ominous beat

                         jordan
          chief

                         chief vo
          oneil theres no air in your
          main tanks

                         mccool
          what

they scramble to check their main dive tanks  even
through the gauges show full theyre dead empty  all of
them


int  crashed helo  underwater  day

                         the chief
                  into radio
          this mission wasnt about tagging
          mines  it was to see how you coped
          with mechanical failures  pretty
          fuckin ironic huh

he laughs  its the bleakest laugh imaginable


ext  ocean  day

                         slutnik
          hes circlin the drain eltee

jordan surveys the equipment they do have aboard  the
stuff she can count on  mental turbos kicking in

                         jordan
          so we got two full minitanks three
          minutes each  cool  how much air
          in yours

                         mccool
          maybe half  not even

                         jordan
          grab an oar find a way to weight it
          down were gonna need it  cortez
          help him  flea  you take one of the
          two full minis  and just follow my
          lead

                         cortez
          what were gonna pry em out with
          paddles

                         mccool
                  grabbing her
          oneil  our airs gonna crap out as
          soon as we get down there  you know
          that dont you

                         jordan
          so i guess we get one shot at it


int  crashed helo  underwater  day

swimming in his own blood the chief starts to fade away
losing consciousness  but then through the cockpit
windscreen

a hazy orb of light above him  the orb grows and grows
until it resolves into a flare carried by his wouldbe
savior  jordan

                         the chief
          whyd it have to be her


ext  crashed helo  underwater  day

reaching the downed helo mccool and cortez wedge their
oars under the fuselage and leverage hard until

an opening appears

jordan and flea swim into the breach


int  crashed helo  underwater  day

 and surface inside the wreckage

                         jordan
          chief sir still with me

                         chief
                  unbuckling copilot
          take him first  once hes clear
          come back with 

                         jordan
          sir let me suggest you stop giving
          orders and start doing exactly what
          i say because thats the only way
          were all getting out of here  now
          hows your vest check out  still
          good


ext  crashed helo  underwater  day

mccools air craps out  he abandons his oar and swims for
the surface  that leaves only

cortez struggling mightily to keep the escape route open
he knows his minitank is running on empty  and it
scares the bejeezus out of him


int  crashed helo  underwater  day

                         jordan
          flea take the pilot up slow feed
          him air  chief sir you and i are
          gonna take the express elevator
          outta here  remember to let your
          air out  ready


ext  ocean  day

twin transports  seafox one and two  pound across the
water  instructors sweep binoculars trying to spot

the ilb  newberry pops a flare skyward as slutnik
downloads info over the radio


ext  crashed helo  underwater  day

cortezs air goes dead  he gives it three more seconds
eyes riveted on the underside of the helo knowing they
have to come out right fucking absolutely

now  jordan appears with the chief  flea is at their
heels with the copilot

cortez drops his oar as if it were radioactive and swims
for the sky

the helo booms back down onto the reef

jordan yanks the cord on the chiefs vest  it inflates
instantly  one arm raised jordan streaks for the
surface


ext  ocean  day

 and supermans into daylight with the chief  they
covered 50 feet in four seconds

doing a 360 jordan spots

seafox one coming their way

jordan waves like a shipwreck victim

not slowing seafox lowers a recovery rig into place
theyre wasting no time on the pickup

remembering the last time she tried this jordan gets a
deathgrip on the chiefs vest

                         the chief
                  growling
          oneil

                         jordan
          shut up sir  im concentrating

the recovery loop comes at her like a big brass ring

seafox thunders past  jordan plunges her free arm through
the loop

and suddenly theyre gone whisked away by the boat

throwing a rooster tail a mile long seafox pivots on the
water and heads back to base

                         mccool
          hooooooyah

                         newberry
          go go go go

                         slutnik
          uhhuh  thats right  just like we
          always practice it

                                            dissolve to

ext  guard house  coronado naval base  day

limousine leading a parade of vehicles reaches the base
entrance  a man exits the limo to expedite matters with
the base guard

                         dehavens aide
          senator dehaven is here for the
          graduation ceremonies

                         base guard
          what are all these other vehicles

                         dehavens aide
          just a small press corps  routine

                         base guard
          and that pickup truck at the end

                         dehavens aide
          that  that would be the allwoman
          americas cup team


ext  grinder  coronado naval base  day

                         co
                  into microphone
          special reconnaissance class 118
          you may now stand down

all buffed and polished and wearing their dress whites
the former trainees erupt with one great hooyah  what
began as a class of 100 now ends with just 40

sitting among the families and friends we find royce
smiling through his fears  not far away sits blondell
no one claps louder

jordan trades highfives and fierce hugs with crewmates
pyro finally manages to take her aside

                         instructor pyro
          lieutenant  i was asked to give you
          this

its a small case  jordan opens it to find a medal of
bronze and blue enamel

                         jordan
          the navy cross

                         instructor pyro
          i believe he earned it for saving a
          mans life in saudi arabia  he
          wanted you to have it  he was very
          clear on that point

                         jordan
          i was looking for him earlier
          but

                         instructor pyro
          the chief was granted early
          retirement as of 17hundred
          yesterday  by 18hundred he was
          gone  out of the navy

                         jordan
                  knowing better
          just a coincidence

                         instructor pyro
          maybe its not my place to speculate
          on his private thoughts  but i
          think the chief knew that his way 
          his world  had come and gone

jordan nods understanding

                                            cut to

ext  grinder  coronado naval base  day

dehaven  shes holding a press conference trying to turn
piss into wine  and doing a pretty good job

                         dehaven
           of course we always prefer
          peace to war  but if were going to
          war give women a piece  give them
          the choice to defend their country
          and if the president doesnt like
          that idea  if he wants to continue
          to deny women their equal rights 
          then ill be happy to step out back
          with him any time anywhere

jordan approaches  spotting her the press pleads for a
photoop with both women

                         dehaven
          jordan  jordan dear

letting silence be the ultimate expression of scorn
jordan walks right past dehaven

and joins royce  together they turn and leave

                         co
          senator perhaps this would be a
          good time for that lunch  will the
          americas cup team be joining us


ext  beach  coronado naval base  day

jordan and royce walk hand in hand strolling the same
beach she trained on

                         jordan
          so here we are again  staring three
          years of operational duty in the
          face

                         royce
          look  its not like youd be
          completely out of reach  and maybe
          we could call in a few favors get
          you stationed at norfolk instead of
          coronado  there are ways of dealing
          with these things  i mean if
          people are so inclined

                         jordan
                  warily
          which is guyspeak for

                         royce
          yes jordan  ill wait for you no
          matter how long

finally the right answer


ext  air station  coronado naval base  day

start tight on jordans face  even beneath the camouflage
paint we can see her exhilaration  pull back to find her
in a line of commandos boarding an idling c130  shes
embarking on her first mission  keep pulling back until
weve lost her completely  until shes just one soldier
among many indistinguishable from the rest

                                            fade out

                         the end