willow











                       story by
                     george lucas



                      screenplay
                          by
                      bob dolman






                      first draft
                    third revision
                   november 14 1986


c lfl 1986
lucasfilm ltd
all rights reserved

                          act i

fade in

ext nockmaar castle  day

under gloomy sky a huge fortress looms on a volcanic
mountainside  from within we hear the agonizing scream
of a woman giving birth

int nockmaar castle  day

the scream continues as we move through the grim corri
dors of the castle toward stairs leading down to a
dungeon

int dungeon  day

silhouetted in sadows three nockmaar minions stand
guard  in a jail cell sex fully pregnant women watch
from behind iron bars  the screaming stops  theres a
moment of silence  as we move into another jail cell
we hear a slap and the first cry of a newborn baby

in the cell a blackrobed druid watches intensely as
ethna a midwife leans over the mother and wraps the
baby in swaddling

                         druid
          is it a girl

                         ethna
          it is a girl

                         druid
          show me its arm

ethna peels back the swaddling  on the babys arm is a
small marking

                         druid
          its true then  i must tell queen
          bavmorda

with great urgency the druid hurries up the dungeon
stairs  ethna gently places the baby on the mothers
breast  the mother comforst the baby lovingly until it
stops crying  then she reaches out and clasps the
midwifes wrist

                        mother
          ethna please  help me  theyre
          going to kill my baby

ethna nervously looks out at the guards then shakes
her head at the mother

                         ethna
          theyll kill you

                        mother
          please save my baby

ethna hesitates  then decides  she quickly wraps to
gether some rags and gives them to the mother

                         ethna
          pretend this is the child

                        mother
          thank you ethna  thank you

the mother kisses her baby and hands it to ethna who
hides the baby inside the basket of rags  ethna car
ries the basket past the guards and up the stairs

the mother lies back and sighs with relief  then she
hears clinking bootsteps and her eyes widen with fear

queen bavmorda sweeps down the dungeon stairs her
black robes flowing behind her  the druid hurries
alongside

                       bavmorda
          we will start the ritual at dusk
          youre certain this is the one

                         druid
          it bears the markings

                       bavmorda
          i must see for myself  just as the
          omen foretold

the guards fearfully move aside as bavmorda enters the
cell

                       bavmorda
          so  you were the one

                        mother
          yes  but nothing you can do will
          stop the prophecy

                       bavmorda
          this child will have no power over
          me

bavmorda grabs the rags away from the mother and anxi
ously tears them apart

                       bavmorda
                      furiously
          wheres the baby

one of the guards looks up the stairs

                         guard
          the midwife

bavmorda flies into a rage

                       bavmorda
          find that baby  use the dogs
          sorsha

two guards draw swords and charge upstairs  bavmorda
grabs the third guard and nods toward the mother

                       bavmorda
          kill her

bavmorda storms away with the druid  we see the shadow
of the guard move over the terrified mother  war drums
begin to beat out an alarm

ext snowy mountainside  day

titles begin  the midwife hurries through swirling
show clutching the baby

ext village  day

nockmaar troops on horseback charge into a desolate
village driving ferocious death dogs into huts
violently searching for the baby  the oppressed poor
villagers are yanked into the street  some of them are
beaten  one is killed

the midwife hides behind a hut still holding the baby
then runs away from the village

ext grassland  day

ethna treks across an open grass field

ext woods  night

she huddles by a fire exhausted and hungry her
clothes filthy and torn and she rocks the crying baby
she hears dogs howling in the distance  she clutches
the baby kicks out the fire and runs

ext ocean cliffside  day

she scrambles over rocks on a windswept coastline

ext forest  dawn

ethna runs desperately for her life  chasing her are
two vicious death dogs  she scrambles across a shallow
river  she claws at rock and tears away sticks and
driftwood matted together with weeds  into this she
places the baby and sets it afloat downstream

                       death dog
          bordak

the dogs lunge from the woods and splash across the
river  the midwife claws her way up a steep bank lur
ing the dogs  as they attack her

                        midwife
          i dont have her  no  no

she grabs a stick and tries to defend herself thrash
ing at the snarling dogs

from the babys view as it floats down the river we
see the dogs kill the midwife beyond the distant trees

ext downriver  day  montage

the little raft of sticks swirls precariously in the
current  it glances off jutting rocks tumbles over
rapids and scrapes under overhanging trees

ext riverbank  day

at last the raft catches in some weeks almost dumping
the baby

title sequence ends

suddenly we hear rustling leaves possibly another
death dog  then we hear giggling  two children ranon
and mims watch in amazement from the riverbank

ext ufgood farm  day

holding onto a plow willow ufgood struggles behind a
huge hog  from a heavy sack slung over his shoulder he
tosses seeds

                         ranon
          dada  we found something in the
          river

willow beams with joy as his son and daughter race to
ward him  they grab his sleeves and tug him away from
his plow

                        willow
          i cant run off and play with you
          now  ive got work to do

                      ranonmims
          but dada you gotta see it  hurry

willow drops his sack of seeds  the ugly hog glares at
him like a guilty conscience  the children squeal with
excitement as their father runs toward the river with
them

ext riverbank  day

we see willow from the babys view  his eyes pop open
he quickly backs his children away

                        willow
          back  dont go near it  we dont
          know where its been  it could be
          diseased

                         mims
          its a baby

                         ranon
          its not a nelwyn baby

                        willow
          no its too big to be a nelwyn
          baby  it looks like a daikini

                         mims
          ooh its so cute

                        willow
          mims  get back here  it might
          bite you

willow drags mims away  then the baby starts crying

                         ranon
          cant we keep it dada

                        willow
          absolutely not

                      burglekutt
          ufgood  willow ufgood

willow in a sudden panic sees burglekutt in the dis
tance  he splashes into the river grabs the raft
plunks it on the bank and tries to hush the crying
baby

                        willow
          shhh shhh  its the prefect 
          thats all i need  mims ranon
          keep this thing hidden

ext ufgood farm  day

burglekutts beady eyes spot willow making a mad dash
for his plow  swinging his fat stomach he angrily
points his walking stick and goes after him

                         kiaya
          mr burglekutt  he hasnt done
          anything wrong

willows wife kiaya chases burglekutt across the field
her beautiful long hair flowing behind her  willow
quickly gets behind his plow like hes been there all
day

                      burglekutt
          ufgood  what do you think youre
                doing  i tell the planting seeds
                in this village

                         kiaya
          i told him we didnt steal it wil
          low

burglekutt furiously scoops a handful of seeds out of
willows sack and shakes them under willows nose

                      burglekutt
          you havent paid your debts  where
          did you get these seeds

with pride willow puts his arm around his wife

                        willow
          in the forest  my familys been
          gathering them since last fall
          theres no law against that bur
          glekutt

suddenly the children laugh in the distance

                         kiaya
          willow  you left the children
          alone by the river

in alarm she runs off before willow can stop her  bur
glekutt sweeps the horizon with his walking stick

                      burglekutt
          too late ufgood  youll never get
          your planting done before the rains
          start  youre gonna lose this
          land

he raises the seeds high above his head then smashes
them down at willows boots  he waddles away toward
two of his men who wait by the road  then  kiaya
shrieks from the river  burglekutt stops in his tracks
and shakes his head as if to say the whole familys
crazy  off he trudges  willow watches and waits
then runs as fast as he can to the river

ext river  day

kiaya cradles the baby in her arms  willow runs up
and with patriarchal authority puts his fists on his
hips

                        willow
          absolutely under no condition is
          anyone in this family going to fall
          in love with that baby

they all fall in love as he speaks  the children fol
low kiaya up on the bank walking right past willow

                        willow
          kiaya  we cant keep that baby
          mims ranon  hey  i will not be
          ignored

ignored willow huffs after them across his unplowed
field

int ufgood house  day

willow nervously paces as kiaya pours water in a wood
tub and the children entertain the naked baby with
sticks and brightly colored cloths apparatus for a
magic trick

                        willow
          this is bad  if were caught with
          that little daikini itll be the
          end of us  careful ranon i need
          that for the festival
                indicates magic cloth
          kiaya what are we going to do

                         kiaya
          were gonna give this baby a bath

the baby squeals with joy as kiaya lifts her into the
bath

                        willow
          burglekutts right  theres not
          enough time to finish plowing
          well lose everything and ill end
          up working in the mines

he shudders at the thought

                         kiaya
          willow do you think we should take
          her to the village council

                        willow
          no no  theyll think its a bad
          omen  therell be a flood or a
          drought or a plague and
          everybodyll blame me for it

                         ranon
          look  whats that

willow leans forward  on the babys shoulder is a
small branded scar in a circular design  it only adds
to willows fears

                        willow
          i dont know  this is trouble
          ill talk to the high aldwin about
          it tomorrow at the festival

the baby kicks and splashes and giggles in the bath

ext nelwyn village  day

the raucous band plays as nelwyns dance and celebrate
amid brochs and wheelhouses garlanded with flowers  a
crowd cheers wildly as miners battle farmers in a tug
ofwar finally yanking the farmers facefirst into a
puddle of mud  on a stage a harlequin dances delight
fully  while on a raised platform the five members of
the village council sit and observe mildly amused
the head councilman is burglekutt

the we see willow on another stage  he flourishes his
colorful sticks and cloths  in the audience we notice
his friend meegosh who wears a miners apron rooting
willow on

                        willow
          and now  for our final amazing bit
          of magic i will make an entire pig
          completely disappear

meegosh applauds as mims and ranon trot out lugging a
tiny baby pig in a crate  as willow takes the pig out
it bites his hand and gets away  willow tackles and
squashes it  the crowd laughs and half of them leave
and meegosh covers his face

mims and ranon rapidly wave a bright blanket  willow
cleverly whips the pig under his legs and behind his
back and suddenly its gone  impresse the crowd
gasps  then the pig squeals and dashes through
willows legs and leaps off the stage

                         crowd
          aaww  booo  sssss

burglekutt and the council shake their heads as willow
embarassed picks up his things  meegosh trots up
with the pig under his arm

                        willow
          meegosh im in trouble

                        meegosh
          hey it wasnt that bad  you need
          a better pig thats all

but as they walk past the village council and bur
glekutt sneers down at willow meegosh catches on

                        meegosh
          now burglekutts got you in the
          squeeze  soon youll be down in
          the mines like me

                        willow
          mining  i hate closedin spaces
          thats the last thing id ever do
                     he shudders
          i gotta get my crop planted

                        meegosh
          you know ill help you as much as i
          can willow

the village council members stand up respectfully as
the wise old high aldwin hobbles through the adoring
crowd  mims and ranon rush up to willow with several
other children who are eating candy

                         mims
          dada can we get treacle candy
          can we can we  please

                        willow
                     preoccupied
          meegosh can you watch the chil
          dren  i gotta talk to the high
          aldwin

                        meegosh
                    truly amazed
          the high aldwin  why

but willow has already wandered into the crowd leaving
meegosh with a dozen sugarcharged children and a pig

willow desperately pushes past people and finally
reaches the high aldwin

                        willow
          sir  i have to talk to you

                      high aldwin
          not today willow

                        willow
          its a matter of great importance
          to me

burglekutt stares angrily from his platform  slightly
annoyed the high aldwin stops and places his hand on
willows shoulder

                      high aldwin
          intuition willow  remember  i
          know youre eager to be my appren
          tice willow  but today is the
          spring festival

suddenly a walking stick is pointed at willows nose

                      burglekutt
          apprentice  to the high aldwin
          willow ufgood

his belly shakes as he howls with laughter encouraging
his councilmen to join in  willow shrinks away em
barassed

then a terrified shriek shatters the festivity  music 
stops and people grab their children and run for their
lives  a death dog rips a trail of destruction through
the village

meegosh holds onto ranon and mims  but when mims sees
willow she runs right out into the open  willow
charges twoard her tackling her and rolling away from
the beasts claws

                       death dog
          bordak  bordak

a loud war cry distracts the dog  vohnkar the
toughest warrior in the village leads a charging army
of miners and farmers wielding shovels and picks  wil
low and meegosh grab sticks  the nelwyns battle the
death dog  at last vohnkar drives a spear through its
chest and it dies hideously

                        meegosh
          what was it looking for

                      a villager
          it said bordak  what does it
          mean

                      councilman
                      scholarly
          baby  it means baby  it was look
          ing for somebodys baby

mothers grab their children people look around the
wrecked village in terror  theres a haunting silence

                         mims
          mommy

suddenly alarmed willow races towrd his distant farm
his children hurrying behind

                        willow
          kiaya  kiaya

int ufgood house  day

willow bursts in and finds kiaya calmly feeding the
baby  relieved he throws his arms around her

                        willow
          we cant keep this baby kiaya  we
          must take her to the council

the children run in and they all huddle together cher
ishing their precious lives

int council building  day

arguing villagers pack the churchshaped room to the
open door at the back and into the balconies above
the councilmen sit on a platform at the front with the
high aldwin seated in a special chair above them  tak
ing charge burglekutt stands and pounds the floor with
his walking stick

                      burglekutt
          an evil beast from the outer world
          has invaded our peaceful village
          looking for a baby

this only adds to the frenzy

                      a villager
          its a sign  an omen

                   another villager
          our crops will die

                      burglekutt
          silence  one beast we can kill
          but there may be more  and they
          wont give up their search till
          theyve found what theyre looking
          for

                        meegosh
          whose baby is it

                    other villagers
          whos to blame for this

amid the chaos the high aldwin slowly stands up  as if
he senses something he looks over the crowd toward the
back

at the back door holding the baby willow tries to
push his way through the jostling crowd  the high
aldwin raises his hand  it flashes magically  he
points as he speaks

                      high aldwin
          willow ufgood  come before me

the crowd stands apart as willow walks the length of
the room  kiaya and the children follow part way and
then stand aside next to meegosh  burglekutt simmers
as willow approaches the platform

                      high aldwin
          earlier today you tried to tell me
          something willow

                        willow
                    bows his head
          my family found this baby in the
          river high aldwin

the crowd stirs but the high aldwin silences them with
a simple gesture  he gazes down at the baby mysteri
ously

                      high aldwin
          a daikini child
                   his eyes close
           of some importance i feel

                      burglekutt
          thats what the beasts want  give
          it back

the crowd rumbles many agree

                        willow
          theyll kill her  we cant let
          this baby die

                      burglekutt
          what do we care

burglekutt whips up the shouting crowd  the high
aldwin raises his hands feeling the air above him
almost in a trance

                      high aldwin
           importanceyesthis child
          is special

                      councilman
          what should we do

instantly the high aldwin drops his arms and opens his
eyes

                      high aldwin
          this child must be taken beyond the
          boundaries of our village  all the
          way to the daikini crossroads

the room goes silent

                      a villager
          who will do that

                   several villagers
          vohnkar  vohnkar

vohnkar the warrior elbows his way to the front and
pounds his chest once with his fist

                      high aldwin
          the outer world is dangerous and
          corrupt vohnkar  and this baby is
          hunted by bloodhungry beasts  are
          you willing to sacrifice your life

brave vohnkar swallows and shifts his weight doubtful
ly

                        vohnkar
          if i go wholl defend you if other 
          beasts attack

the crowd rumbles and shouts and vohnkar mops his brow
and scuttles away from the platform

                      burglekutt
          hes right  it seems only fair
          that the man to take this baby to
          the crossroads
                  walking stick up
           be the very man who plucked
          it
                 walking stick down
           out of the river

all eyes turn to willow  kiaya gasps and meegosh holds
her back

                        willow
          i cant do it  i havent put my
          crop in

                     a councilman
          you caused this trouble  you found
          the babyyou get rid of it

                      burglekutt
          i nominate willow ufgood

the crowd cheers wildly  the high aldwin steps forward
to the edge of the platform  with a flourish he waves
his arms

                      high aldwin
          i will consult the bones

something rattles as he shakes his cupped hands  the
crowd jumps away  the high aldwin scatters small bones
across the floor below him  he leans down and studies
the bones  willow looks at kiaya who is worried and
afraid  the high aldwin speaks softly to him

                      high aldwin
          the bones tell me nothing
                   he eyes willow
          but i must make a decision  is
          there love in your heart for this
          child

willow hesitates  he looks at the baby

                        willow
          yes

the high aldwin bolts straight up broadcasting

                      high aldwin
          the bones have spoken  willow
          the security of this village
          depends on you

the people shout and cheer and applaud and begin to
leave  kiaya and meegosh and the children push their
way toward willow who stands there staring at the
baby

int ufgood house  night

kiayas hair hangs down her back in a long tight braid
near the fire she packs supplies into a travel sack
on the other side of the fire willow diapers the baby
the house is quiet

                         mims
          dada

willow sets the baby down  he goes around an opne wall
an sits on his daughters bed straightening her blank
ets and toys

                         mims
          watch out for brownies dada

                        willow
          i will mims  goodnight

he smiles and kisses her  then crosses over to ranons bed

                         ranon
          dada whats a daikini

                        willow
          daikinis are giant people who live
          far far away

                         ranon
          are you scared

willow shrugs  ranon sits up in bed

                         ranon
          i could be you rguard  i could
          carry your spear

                        willow
                       smiles
          what a great son you are ranon  i
          wish i could take you with me  now
          go to sleep

ranon slides down under his blankets  willow kisses
him looks at him a moment then quietly withdraws to
ward the fire

ext sacred hill  sunrise

the silhouette of a distant hill with druid stones on
top

carrying the baby willow climbs the hill with his fami
ly  he wears a papoose rig supply pack and a dagger
he hands the baby to kiaya then walks through the
towering stones  the high aldwin solemnly looks out at
the distant forest

                      high aldwin
          now you know where youre going
               willow shakes his head
          down there through those trees
          follow the river  youll know the
          crossroads by a big daikini struc
          ture  willow this is serious
          business  dont waste any time
          the outer world is no place for a
          nelwyn  give the baby to the first
          daikini you see then hurry home as
          fast as you can

                        willow
          if im not strong enough to be your
          apprentice how can i do this

                      high aldwin
          youre strong enough  but youre
          going to need courage willow

                        willow
          i dont want courage  i dont want
          to be a warrior  all ive ever
          wanted was to do magic real magic
          like you

                      high aldwin
          real magic willow is simply the
          art of controlling the reality of
          others  you lack faith in your
          self  you must learn to trust your
          intuition

the high aldwin picks up a rock  with intense concen
tration he squeezes it in his outstretched hand  then
throws it in the air  it changes into a bird and flies
away

                      high aldwin
          go in the direction the bird is
          flying

                        willow
                       amazed
          oh if i could do that idid
          turn burglekutt into a toad

                      high aldwin
          waste magic on revenge  you have
          much to learn willow

the high aldwin touches willows shoulder and turns
away  the children are playing tag among the stones
willow hugs them  kiaya places the baby in the papoose

                         kiaya
          willow weve never been apart  i
          miss you already  take this  it
          will bring you luck

kiaya whose head is covered with a kerchief places a
braided necklace on her own hair around willows neck

                        willow
          you cut your hair kiaya

he kisses her  the adjusts the papoose and heads off
down the hill  the others wave goodbye sadly

                         kiaya
          willow

kiaya rushes down the hill and passionately throws her
arms around willow tears in her eyes  at last they
break apart and willow begins the journey

ext woods  day  montage

willow hikes through strange and wondrous terrain
amazed and frightened  animals rustle in the brush and
he stumbles into a thistle patch jumping out picking
burrs off his legs  he hides from a fierce bear  the
bear sees him and runs away  willow hurries along
shifting the papoose getting used to the babys
weight

ext road  evening

the baby is fussing hungrily  willow impetuously digs
a bladder of goats milk from his sack and struggles to
feed her  then he hears something  sensing danger he
clutches the baby and runs down a nearby riverbank  he
hides under a bridge

nockmaar soldiers on horseback thunder toward the
bridge led by the knight sorsha whose face is hidden
under a black helmet and visor  in the other direction
willow sees a lieutenant and two death dogs  they all
meet on the bridge  the hideous soldiers are part hu
man part beast

                      lieutenant
          weve patrolled the hills  this is
          where they killed the nursemaid

                        sorsha
          she must have done something with
          the child  widen the search

one of the death dogs is chewing on the lieutenants
stirrup

                      lieutenant
          get away from there

the dog panics and gnashes at the lieutenants arm
ripping away a piece of armor with its teeth  horses
rear  the lieutenant draws his sword lightningfast
he slices and kills the death dog  the baby begins to
cry but the deathhowl of the beast drowns her out as
it does hurtling off the bridge into the river below
the soldiers gallop off into the woods

willow falls back against the riverbank shrinking away
from the murdered death dog which lies bloody and
twisted in the water  the terrified baby cries in his
arms

ext road  morning

a harmless rabbit springs across willows path  willow
trips over a stone and almost falls flat on his face

                        willow
          i hate this  where am i  i should
          stick you in a tree and go back
          home
                    looks at baby
          im sorry  i didnt mean that

he hurries along the road looking over his shoulder

ext landscape  day  montage

various views of willow and the baby trekking across
vast hills and valleys

ext hill  day

gasping with exhaustion willow staggers up a sloping
hill and drops to his knees  his eyes brighten  in
the distance he sees a junction marked by a high wooden
scaffolding

                        willow
          thats it  the crossroads

he stands and heads toward it cautiously

ext crossroads  day

the place is disgusting  littered with junk buzzing
with flies plagued with rodents  willow creeps toward
the scaffolding covering his face against the stench
from it hang two cages  in one is a heap of filthy
rags  in the other a halfclothed skeleton with one
bony arm dangling out

willow unpacks the papoose and looks up the deserted
road  he shivers with cold

                        willow
          i hate this

ext crossroads  day  later

willow waits uneasily brushing flies off his face
the baby fusses and squirms  he peeks inside her
diaper

                        willow
          i hate this

he looks anxiously up and down the road  the babys
crying gets worse  he begins to change her

ext crossroads  sunset

willow finishes building a fire lighting it with flint
and blowing it into flame  the baby lies quietly near
by in a kind fo portacrib made of papoose and twigs
nightfall teems with spooky noises  crickets frogs
bats owls and howling wolves  then a terrible moan
frightens him

                        willow
          i really hate this

not sure where it came from he backs away from the
fire under the ragfilled cage  suddenly a hand
reaches down and yanks willow up off the ground  wil
low screams  the baby cries  and we see the haggard
unwashed unshaven face of madmartigan pressing against
the bars of the cage

                      madmartigan
          hey peckget me some wateror
          youll diiiiie

madmartigan shakes willow like a ragdoll until willow
nods his head yes  then drops him  instantly willow
races around that fire picking up everything he owns

                        willow
          i willill getcha watergetcha
          lotsa wateranything you say

willow grabs the baby and makes a beeline for the
bushes

                      madmartigan
          peck

he dives headfirst into the weeds  madmartigan rattles
his cage

                      madmartigan
          youre a weasely little peck
          gimme some water

willow peeks at him and shakes his head

                        willow
          im not coming near you

they stare at each other across the fire  then mad
martigan puts on a very phony smile

                     madmartigan
          please  im dyin of thirst in
          here

                        willow
          good  how long will it take

madmartigan drops the smile and spits at the fire

                      madmartigan
          dont make me angry peck

                        willow
          you be careful  im a powerful
          sorcerer  i could turn you into a
          toad just like that

                      madmartigan
          miserable pecks

willow throws a rock at him  it bounces off the cage
madmartigan sags down into a heap of rags again

ext crossroads  night

the wind howls through the distant trees as darkness falls
willow rocks the baby and eats some bread  madmartigan
watches him hungrily sighing forlorn his eyes asking
for pit  willow glances at him  finally he cant
take any more and he puts down the baby and pous some
goats milk in a cup  he reaches up on tiptoes and
offers the milk to madmartigan

                      madmartigan
          thats more like it

madmartigan snatches the cup and guzzles the milk
retching horribly at the taste  then he tosses the cup
back

                        willow
          do any other daikinis ever come by
          here

                      madmartigan
          why

                        willow
          i have to give this baby to some
          body

madmartigan grabs the bars and raises himself up

                      madmartigan
          im somebody  lemme out and ill
          take care of your baby

he makes little kissing noises to the baby trying to
be sweet  however his teeth are filthy

                        willow
          no  somebdoy put you in there for a
          reason  ill wait for somebody else

willow retreats to the fire  madmartigan whacks the
cage with the back of his hand

ext crossroads  night later

by the blazing fire willow feeds the baby  we hear
hoofbeats

                        willow
          hey  somebodys coming

                      madmartigan
          peck  quick  douse the fire

excited willow tosses more wood on the fire picks up
the baby and waits

                      madmartigan
          no you fool  put it out i say
          out

torches appear up the road  a horsedrawn wagon
clatters fullspeed toward the fire  we hear load
drunken voices far from friendly  willow quickly
dives into the bushes

four boorish picts with tatooed faces and arms halt
at the crossroads yelling and waving their torches
madmartigan is hidden under his rags  for fun the
picts set fire to the skeleton cage  then head for the
other

                      madmartigan
          no

he rises up in the torchlight  the picts taunt him

                         pict
          whose fire

they jab their torches at madmartigan

                      madmartigan
          no  help  stop

                         pict
          where are they  where did they go

madmartigan points way up the road  the picts ride
away  as they go they swing his cage and st fire to
the floor of it  madmartigan frantically geats the
flames  his sleeves ignite

willow scrambles out of the bushes and scoops up hand
fuls of dirt which he chucks at madmartigan

                      madmartigan
                  spitting out dirt
          thanks for your help peck

                        willow
          are you okay

                      madmartigan
          as if you care  i saved your life
          peck  those guys woulda killed us
                 points dramatically
          you wanna give your baby to them
          they eat babies

                        willow
          i dont know

madmartigan literally licks his wounds dragging his
parched tongue along the length of his forearm  willow
begins to walk away

                      madmartigan
          the worlds gone insane  good men
          locked in cages criminals running
          free  it doesnt pay to be honest
          peck

willow stops and turns around

                        willow
          dont call me a peck  my name is
          willow

madmartigan slinks down like a cat and slowly extends
his derty hand through the bars

                      madmartigan
          hello willow  im madmartigan

willow stares warily at the hand  madmartigan smiles
willow quickly shakes his hand and jumps away  madmar
tigan laughs in a harmless friendly way

                      madmartigan
          you a woodcutter

                        willow
          farmer

                      madmartigan
          farmer  i knew it  youre a vic
          tim willow  yep you and me
          victims of a rotten corrupt cor
          rupt rotten world

a rat lumbers out of the darkness and sniffs toward the
baby in the portacrib  madmartigan suddenly points
willow screams and chases the rat away  madmartigan
shakes his head as solemnly as an undertaker

                      madmartigan
          listen willow my friend  im
          really a good man  give me my
          freedom and ill look after that
          baby for you  trust me

after a moment willow takes out his dagger  he stands
on his toes under a cage reaches up and hacks at the
chain lock  madmartigans eyes widen overeagerly  he
rubs his hands together and licks his lips

                      madmartigan
          thats itgoodgoodlike that
          yes good good the chainthats
          it come oncome on

willow suddenly steps away

                        willow
          nooo i dont think i should

madmartigan goes berserk  his arms flail and the whole
cage shakes and swings and he bangs his head on the
roof

                      madmartigan
          peck  stupid peck  ill kill ya
          let me out

willow scrambles back to the fire and scoops up the
baby and rocks her in his arms

ext crossroads  dawn

madmartigan is making something out of scraps of bark
and cloth  he smiles sweetly as willow wakes up

                      madmartigan
          morning willow

willow turns his back on him and tends to the baby

                      madmartigan
          sorry i yelled at you  ive been
          in this cage toooo long  cant
          think straight anymore  owww

willow looks over  madmartigan pats his arms in pain

                        willow
          you all right

                      madmartigan
          these burns  my arms  ouch

he holds up his arms in agony  willow fishes some
gooey jelly out of his sack and smears a gob of it on a
leaf  he hands it up to madmartigan

                        willow
          see if this helps

madmartigan wipes the goo all over his arms

                      madmartigan
          aaaaaahhhh  better  here i made
          something for the baby

he holds out a ratlle and shakes it  willow accepts
it

                        willow
          whats inside

madmartigan sticks his finger in his mouth and pries it
open as wide as possible

                      madmartigan
          a tooth
                   willow reacts
          im strving  i got no used for it

noise in the distance  up the road willow sees a
messenger charging on horseback  he gallops right
past whipping his horse almost knocking willow off
the road  then another messenger follows with the same
urgency  willow grabs the baby and steps out to stop
him

                        willow
          stop  wait

the messenger screams a willow who jumps aside as he
thunders by  the two horsemen disappear up the road

                      madmartigan
                   with authority
          smells like a battle

                        willow
          are you a warrior

                      madmartigan
          the greatest swordsman that ever
          lived

madmartigan slices the air with an imaginary sword
willow shakes his head and goes back to the baby

ext crossroads  day

we see the empty road  willows head pops into frame
he grabs the baby

                        willow
          whats that  i hear something

                      madmartigan
          you hear trouble

                        willow
          what is it

the horizon rumbles  madmartigan cups his ear  cyni
cally

                      madmartigan
          a hundred horsesfive or six
          wagons  and about six thousand
          fools

two cavalry officers gallop into view raising a plume
of dust  then an enormous army appears  cavalry foot
soldiers assault wagons shields swords spears
raised banners

the two officers shout orders over the thunderous
clamor of hoofbeats marching boots and clanking armor
charging back and forth they shepherd the army through
the crossroads  willow holds the baby  fighting dust
and noise he tries to get the officers attention

                        willow
          sir  sir

                        officer
          out of the way

an officers horse nearly kicks willow who scurries
out of the way  huddling with the baby he notices
airk thaughbaer a large muscular bearded officer
clearly in charge  on horseback airk breaks file and
rides up to the other officers

                         airk
          push em harder  no rest at mid
          day  we need to make ten more
          leagues by dark

shouting orders the officers split up charging to the
front and rear of the army  airk watches the army
pass  willow desperately scrambles up to him

                        willow
          sir  sir  i have this baby  we
          found her in our village  will you
          take her

huge airk looks down from his huge horse  little wil
low holds up the baby

                         airk
          were going into battle little
          one  find a woman to take care of
          it

                      madmartigan
          he thought you were a woman airk

airk snaps hes head around and his eyes flash

                         airk
          madmartigan  what did you do this
          time

                      madmartigan
          nothing you wouldnt have done it my
          place

airks horse prances menacingly around madmartigans
cage

                         airk
          i always knew youd end up in a
          crows cage

                      madmartigan
          least im not down there herding
          sheep

airk laughs sourly and rocks the cage

                         airk
          youre lucky somebody got to you
          first madmartigan  idve killed
          you myself after that stunt at
          lands end

he swings that cage and starts to ride away

                      madmartigan
          airk  come on airk  lemme outa
          here

                         airk
                  really sarcastic
          hey remember  you dont need my
          help madmartigan  little rabbit
          trap like this  come on  i could
          open it for you but i wouldnt
          wanna insult you

                      madmartigan
          gimme a sword airk  ill win your
          war for you

airk quickly drops the banter and glares at madmartigan seri
ously

                         airk
          youre nothing but trouble madmar
          tigan  and i got plenty of that
          stay in your coffin and rot

airk spurs his horse and smashes the cage as he charges
off

                      madmartigan
          ill be around long after youre
          dead airk  you slime  when i get
          outa here ill cut your head off
          and stick it on a pigpole

                        willow
          friend of yours

madmartigan snarls down at willow as the army continues
to march by  but then he quickly gets cute again

                      madmartigan
          hello little baby

ext crossroads  day  later

a ghostly wind hants the barren crossroads  the road
is pocked with hoofprints and wagon tracks  willow
shakes his head at the ashes of his dead fire

                      madmartigan
          whatcha thinkin about willow

                        willow
          i hate this

madmartigan squeezes his face between the bars of his
cage

                      madmartigan
          nobodys gonna take your baby
          know why  nobody cares
                        beat
          except me
                      wistfully
          you wanna go back to your farm
          you wanna go back to your family
          i could take care of that baby
          ill look after her like she was me
          own

                        willow
          you dont know anything about ba
          bies

madmartigan kneels and straightens up and points up his
finger astutely

                      madmartigan
          ahhh  but i know a lot of women
          who do  why if i had somebody in
          my lifea little daughter for
          instanceid have a reason to
          live

he clsps his hands together outside the bars plead
ing

                      madmartigan
          willow  you cant let me die here
          not when i wanna help you

willow looks at the baby in the portacrib  then looks
up the empty road  then looks hard at madmartigan

                        willow
          you gotta promise to feed her

                      madmartigan
          i will

                        willow
          fresh goats milk

                      madmartigan
          absolutely

willow draws his dagger and begins to hack at the
chain

                        willow
          and give her a bath everyday and
          dont let her get cold  and keep
          her diaper changed

                      madmartigan
          of course  i promise

willow hacks and pries at the chain until it breaks
open  the bottom of the cage falls out dumping mad
martigan into a heap of rags and dust

                      madmartigan
          come to daddy little darlin
                    picks her up
          i think she likes me

kneeling on the ground he plays with the baby  willow
quickly hitches the papoose to madmartigans back and
hands him supplies

                        willow
          here are her diaper rags  and this
          is her milk bladder  and when she
          criesshes either hungry or shes
          tiredrock her on your left
          shoulder  she likes that

                      madmartigan
          dont worry willow  shes in good
          hands  you havent made a mistake

willow takes the baby and kisses her

                        willow
          bye

he puts her in the papoose

                        willow
                   to madmartigan
          please take good care of her

madmartigan stands up  he towers above willow  he
pats willow on the head

                      madmartigan
          youve done a great job  now you
          go back to your family and get your
          crop in

madmartigan smiles turns and marches off down the
road  willow sighs with relief his task accomplished
he watches madmartigan and the baby disappear over a
hill

ext road  day

swinging his arms and whistling a tune willow struts
proudly up a gentle hill

                        willow
          look its willow ufgood  hes
          come home  welcome back willow
          he deserves a medal  hes quite
          mystical  for honor for bravery
          for his intuitive powers
                     he chuckles
           lets make him apprentice
          aldwin  better still  high
          aldwin  make way  its willow uf
          good high aldwin of

the baby cries  willow spins around  flying towrd
him is an incredible vulture with enormous winds  in
its claws it carries the baby papoose and all  it
swoops straight at willow buzzing him and willow hits
the dirt  he looks up  to add to the wonder  riding
the vulutre is an elf

                        willow
          come back here you  thats my
          baby

the vulture zooms off into the tall majestic trees of
the forest with the baby crying  shouting and waving
madly willow gallops after it

ext through the forest  day

willow tears after the vulture which vanishes in the
towering trees  as the path narrows something whis
tlse past his ear  fingerlength arrows rain down on
him from every direction peppering the surrounding
trees  some even hit willow  he plucks them out as he
races along

he comes to a fork in the path  decision  he starts
down one way then slams on the brakes  he sees ropes
and nets

                        willow
          oh no its a trap

he hurries back to the fork and takes the safer route

                        willow
          oh noooooo

and gets swallowed by a deadly pit

int elfin throne room  underground

willow wakes up as a pail of water hits him in the
face  his feet and wrists are being bound  several
little elves are gawking and laughing at him  they
wear samuraitype outfits and angry little haircuts

                        willow
                      focusing
          where am i  wheres the baby

franjean the elfin king struts forward arrogantly
he speaks a haughty nasal accent resembling french

                       franjean
          i am franjean king of the world

willow struggles against the ropes that bind him

                        willow
          that babys my responsibility

outraged franjean smacks willows nose with the
back of his hand

                       franjean
          i dont care  we paid for her  go
          back to sleep monsieur

as he leaves franjean nods to an intenselooking arch
er elf heavily armed with arrows and a spear  the
archer dips his spear in a bowl of purple liquid  he
pricks willows arm

                        willow
          yeow
                he loses consciousness
          madmartigani never shouldve
          trusted you

fade to black

int elfin throne room  dawn

willows eyes open  a wild little face is looking at
him  a wild little person is standing on his chest

                         teemo
          tongue

too groggy to argue willow sticks out his tongue
teemo the brownie crushes a brittle leaf and tosses the
dust into willows mouth  smacking his lips willow
comes around  he sees down between his legs another
brownie named rool cutting the ropes

                        willow
          who are you

                         rool
          quiet you fool

                         teemo
                       formal
          we are emissaries of her majesty
          queen cherlindrea of the land of
          coshairm

                        willow
          queen cherlindrea

                         teemo
          she requests the presence of your
          self and the young princess

                        willow
          who

                         teemo
          youre the guardian arent you

                         rool
          quit yakking teemo  we gotta get
          outa here

willow rolls onto his knees stands up and bumps his
head on the ceiling  the fuzzyheaded brownies creak
open the door and becon willow to follow  he squeezes
through

int elfin hallway  underground

like a rabbit warren compartments branch off the main
tunnel  willow scrunches along behind the tiptoeing
brownies  they hear the baby crying  they peek
through the door

inside a cluttered room they see thebaby crying miser
ably  her tears are being carried to a high level in
tiny buckets on a mechanized wheel operated by four
elves

                         teemo
          elves  theyre always tormenting
          babies  they make them cry and
          take their tears

                         rool
          somebody has to do it

                        willow
          why

                         rool
          how else they gonna make dew drops

the baby shrieks

                        willow
          im getting her out of there

                         teemo
          no  you let us handle this  come
          along rool

teemo ridiculously pushes willow away from the door
with a macho swagger he adjusts his dagger belt and he
and rool open the door

int elfin tear factory

they enter like gunslingers in a saloon  the four
elves who are twice their size turn and face them
teemo draws his small dagger  with confidence he
smiles at rool

                         teemo
          watch this  right between the
          eyes

                         rool
                    to the elves
          he never misses

artfully teemo poises the dagger above his head  with
all his might he throws  his dagger flipflops through
the air and lands at the elves feet plinkplunk

                         teemo
          ooops  was that right  that
          wasnt right

suddenly the entire wall implodes  the elves scream
and panic as willow comes crashing in like king kong
he grabs the crying baby and tucks her under his arm

ext elf hole  day

the brownies scamper out of a hole in the ground where
the elves keep their vultures corralled

                      roolteemo
          hyah  hyah  git

they untie th evulture and send them flapping away in
the forest as willow wiggles out of the elf hole with
the baby  they run for their lives

ext forest  chase  day

rool and teemo tear along at incredible speed willow
barely keeping up with them  little elf arrows shower
the forest as the angry elves chase after them whoop
ing and screaming

ext deep gorge  day

they skid up to a perilously deep drop into oblivion
the elves are shrieking toward them the only chance
of excape is a huge fallen tree spanning the gorge
the brownies scamper out  willow looks down and reels
with vertigo

                        willow
          i cant go out there with the baby

                      roolteemo
                  frantically point
          elves

the elf army pours out of the forest  willow holds his
breath and ventures out onto the topmost branches of
the tree  arrows zing around him as he wobbles like a
drunken tightrope walker toward the middle  the brown
ies wait for him

                        willow
          ohhh i hate this

                         teemo
          take your time  dont worry about
          the elves  they wont come out
          here

                        willow
          why not

                         rool
          because of the trolls

                        willow
          trolls

the brownies console willow with unworried laughter

                         teemo
          relax  they only come out at
          night

an ugly troll snarls up behind willow  they all scream
and race for the other side  another troll pops up to
meet them  the trolls slink along like possums  the
brownies dive through a hole in the hollow tree trunk

the elves meanwhile flintstart a fire at their end
of the tree  one troll claws at the brownies inside
the trunk while the other chases willow across gangling
branches  then the baby falls out of the papoose  she
tumbles and catches on a low branch and willow races
the troll and grabs her just before she plummets into
the gorge

one troll catches rool but cant then get his claw out
of the trunk  the brownies finally excape  the tree
burns and breaks dangling over the gorge by its roots
a troll howls as he falls to his death  the other
scrambles up the tree and grabs willows foot
willows boot slips off and down goes the second troll

flames lick at willow as he at last hauls himself to
safety just as the roots snap and the blazing tree
goes crashing down in the gorge

                        willow
          this is not going well

                         teemo
          hurry  queen cherlindrea will know
          what to do

willow bundles the baby and follows the brownies into
the forest  hobbling slightly on his bootless foot

ext majestic forest  sunset

fading sunlight bleeds through awesomely beautiful
trees as willow and the brownies trek into the magical
fairy kingdom  elora danan falls into a peaceful
sleep

ext fairy kingdom  night

willow comes to a halt  his mouth drops open  the
forest is a luminous milky way of dancing flying
fairies like fireflies  the brownies tug at his
pantlegs and whisper

                         teemo
          come on  this is a privilege  no
          body ever gets called before her
          majesty

wonderstruck willow walks into a clearing where
colorful nightflowers bloom  he lowers himself onto
an enormous toadstool testing it with his hand  other
brownies stand watching like courtiers  the tiny
fairies fly up to willows face and giggle  they look
like fiveyearold girls full of mischief and fun

suddenly a strange light begins to throb behind the
trees peircing the forest with helterskelter beams
willow throws up his arms as the bright light stings
his eyes

                         rool
          stand up  its the queen

cherlindrea the fairy queen materializes out of frag
ments of moving light diaphanous sylphlike beauti
ful

                      cherlindrea
          willow ufgood

                        willow
                       blinded
          yes

                      cherlindrea
          i hope you are comfortable here
          inside my kingdom

willow says nothing still batling the bright light

                         teemo
          talk  say something

                        willow
          i cant see anythingshes too
          bright

                      cherlindrea
          im sorry

the light diminishes enabling willow to see the queen
she is a beautiful vision with flowing hair and lumi
nous eyes  her magical presence both stuns and
impresses willow  she turns to the brownies

                      cherlindrea
          brokeheart of nightingale for our
          honored guest

all the courtier brownies snap to attention and go into
action bustling about going to work some even trip
ping over one another  they bring willow a drink in a
delicate cupshaped leaf and he takes a sip

the queen dissolves and reappears near willow  she le
ans down and opens the babys swaddling and looks at
the mark on the babys arm

                      cherlindrea
          it is elora danan  the prophecy
          has come true

the tiny fairies and the brownies stop work and sigh
with respect and amazement  cherlindrea seems to levi
tate the baby out of willows arms floating her magi
cally onto a special cradle of stram and sticks  the
brownies and fairies crowd around with great rever
ence

                        willow
          you mean you know who this baby
          belongs to

                      cherlindrea
          she belongs to all of us  she is
          the future queen and ruler of all
          kingdoms on earth

willow starts to get up

                        willow
          what a relief  now i can go home

the queen fragments and reappears right in front of
willow

                      cherlindrea
          no willow  your journey has just
          begun  it has been foretold that
          this child shall bring about the
          downfall of queen bavmorda whose
          evil powers have darkened our
          world  upon you depends this
          princesss life

                        willow
          me

the fairy queen flashes and vanishes  willow lowers
himself back down again  she reappears behind him

                      cherlindrea
          you are the guardian willow  you
          must take her to tir asleen

                        willow
          what is tir asleen

willow cant keep track of her  she keeps changing her
shape  the brownies and fairies snicker at willows
confusion

                      cherlindrea
          it is a distant castle where a
          great king and queen will look
          after elora danan and keep her safe
          until she is old enough to rule

she is gone again  willow looks everywhere frusturated
by these riddles and mysteries

                        willow
          where is tir asleen  how far is
          it

she reappears again

                      cherlindrea
          the way has been lost in time but
          there is one person a druid sor
          ceress who might guide you there
          she was exiled by queen bavmorda
          many years ago  her name is fin
          raziel

                        willow
          you need a warrior for this job
          im nobody

                      cherlindrea
          you are very important willow

                        willow
          no im not  have you really looked
          at me
                  jumps to his feet
          im short  even for a nelwyn

from down at his feet rool and teemo stare up insult
ed

                        willow
                     continuing
          why cant you do it  you have mag
          ical powers

                      cherlindrea
          my prsence cannot extend beyond
          this forest  but i can give you
          these

cherlindrea drops three small objects in willows hand

                      cherlindrea
          they will protect you  use them
          wisely

willow looks at them for quite a while

                        willow
          they look like acorns

                      cherlindrea
          anything you hurl them at will turn
          to stone

willow looks closely at the acorns then up at the
queen

                        willow
          theyre magic  are you serious

the forest light grows brighter  the queen looms over
willow and he again has to shield himself from the
brightness

                      cherlindrea
                       sternly
          i am very serious willow  there
          is no time to lose

now she intensifies her light so that willow backs
away completely covering his face

                        willow
          but ive got a family to think
          about  they need me

the queen swirls around him like a solar wind blowing
the forest trees scaring even the brownies  and then
all of a sudden  silence  and total darkness  all we
see in dim moonlight is willows face peeking out
from between his fingers

                        willow
          hello

the queens voice echoes the forest

                      cherlindrea
          bavmorda powers are growing like
          an evil plague  soon she will con
          trol the lives of you children
          your wife your villageeveryone

very gradually and beautifully the firey fairies begin
to flicker restoring light to the forest  more light
genlty brightens bathing the woods and the fairy
queen reappears  she is holding elora danan in her
arms  the brownies creep out from behind the trees
all eyes are upon willow

                      cherlindrea
          the choice is yours

willow takes the baby and looks at her for a moment
he struggles with his conscience  the fairies and
brownies wait in anticipation  at last willow looks up
at them resolved and determined

                        willow
          ill do it  yes i will ill do
          it

the fairy kingdom sends up a great cheer and applause
fairies giggle playfully around willows face and
brownies hug his ankles

                        willow
          but i only have one shoe

ext wooded hill  day

we see willows feet as he walks along  he has himself
a brandnew shoe

spirits high he treks in the sunshine papoose
strapped to his back  teemo rides in his pocket while
rool straddles the papoose tickling the giggling baby

                        willow
          wait till i tell my children
          stuff like this never happens in my
          village

he digs a magic acorn out of his pocket and tosses it
high in the air  the brownies gasp

                         teemo
          hey careful there

                        willow
          how do these work i wonder  i got
          ta save one to show the high
          aldwin

                         rool
          look  death below

rool points through the trees  willow hurries down the
hill to the treeline  in the valley below 200 nock
maar soldiers and calvalrymen battle a hundred ragtag
rebel troops  from this sage position high on the
hillside willow watches in disgust  weapons clash and
men fall to their deaths

                        willow
          daikinis

they hear a clank behind them  willow slowly turns
around  there is movement in the trees  the hillside
woods are full of nockmaar horsemen moving right up next to him

in the valley the oupowered rebels are being forced
up the hill toward them  willow is suddenly standing
under several large horses and blackarmored minions
he is frozen in fear

                       horsemen
          hyaaaaahh

swords flash and the horseman charge  the brownies
jump and run for their lives  willow stumbles and
spins as horse after horse thunders past him nearly
trampling him and the baby to death

the nockmaar reinforcements descend upon the remaining
rebels and crush them  willow falls and quickly digs
the baby out of the papoose  she is shrieking in ter
ror  he holds her tight and runs along the treeline
following the brownies while the bloody battle rages
below

                        willow
          lets get out of here  shhh dont
          cry elora  things cant get any
          worse than this

ext roadside tavern  day

bleak rain dribbles down willows miserable face  pro
tecting the baby he hurries toward a tavern  the bot
tom of the building is an open stable with several
horses  two burly ironworkers clank a redhot wagon
rim fixing a nearby wagon hitched to a horse

its a rough place  rool and teemo peek out of
willows pockets  upstairs people drink and shout

                         teemo
          im not going in there

                         rool
          me neither

                        willow
          dont worryim a sorcerer  what
          could possibly happen

suddenly theres a crash up above and two picts burst
through a balcony and land in the mud fighting vi
ciously  rool and teemo duck inside willows pockets
willow steps around the picts dashes through the
stable and up the stairs

int tavern  main room  day

the place is packed with tattooed picts nomadic fami
lies mothers wit babies thieves and cutthroats
willow enters with the crying baby

                        willow
          could you spare some milk for this
          poor hungry baby

everyone looks up  mopping a table is an ugly barmaid
as big as a wrestler

                        barmaid
          get outa here peck

                        patrons
          a peck  get him out  beat it
          peck

they hurl stuff at him and threaten him with their
weapons  willow runs along the wall and takes cover
under some stairs  he pulls open his pocket and peers
down inside

                        willow
          i could use your help boys

instantly his pocket whips shut and trembles  willow
cautiously looks out under the stairs  he sees a pail
of milk very near some roughnecks  willow puts his
little finger in the babys mouth silencing her  he
creeps out  and bravely reaches for the milk

                     teemos voice
          willow

willow slaps his pocket  then stretches his arm out
very very slowly  and gets the pail and zips back
under the stairs

                        willow
          this is not fun

he soaks a rag with milk and feeds the baby  catching
his breath he backs up and leans agains a woodplank
wall

                        willow
          woah

the plank gives way and willow falls through the wall

int tavern  day

willow somersaults into a bedroom near an unmade bed
peeking up he sees two women getting dressed in a pan
ic  one is a plumpchested wench with a pretty face

                         wench
          hurry  hurry

very frightened she looks out the window  the other
woman who wears a kerchief over her hair packs thick
powder and makeup paint on her face

                   the other woman
                  in a gruff voice
          how do i look

its madmartigan  willow pops up like a jackinthe
box

                        willow
          you

                      madmartigan
          where the hell did you come from

willow strides toward madmartigan holding the baby
like a machine gun

                        willow
          i trusted you

the brownies peek out

                         rool
          whos he

                      madmartigan
          youre crawling with rodents

the bedroom door explodes open  in storms a big mean
halfdrunk raging lug named llug

                         llug
          where is he

madmartigan wraps a muffler around his throat  the
wench innocently curtsies

                         wench
          theres nobody here except me and
          my um cousin

llug knocks his wife out of the way and glares susi
ciously at madmartigan who bats his heavily madeup
eyelashes  he speaks in a high feminine voice

                      madmartigan
          how do you do

llug sniffs at madmartigan then fixes his gaze on
madmartigans flat chest  he goes to squeeze him
there but madmartigan ducks out of the way and
snatches the baby from willow

                        willow
          hey  give me that baby

                      madmartigan
                     high voice
          these pecks make terrible nurse
          maids

                        willow
          nursemaid

willow angrily jumps up and down swiping at the baby

                      madmartigan
                     high voice
          they get too excited

with a swing of the hip madmartigan butts willow aside
and maternally puts the baby against his chest  llug
houddogs him around the room finally cornering him
and staaring lecherously into his eyes

                         llug
          wanna breeeeeeed


madmartigan protects himself by holding the baby up in
front of his face  then he smells the baby  he winces
and groans

                        willow
                   mischievously
          time to change her diaper

                      madmartigan
          time to leave

madmartigan throws open the door and dashes out  but
he doesnt get very far  several nockmaar soldiers
push him back in  then they grab madmartigan and wil
low and llug and his wife and haul them all outside

int tavern  hallway  day

madmartigan is slammed against a wall  the willow
then llug and his wife  in the bg nockmaar troops
are rousting the tavern taking babies away from
frightened mothers and inspecting them

heavy bootsteps thud toward them  willow looks out and
recognizes sorsha the blackhelmeted knight from the
bridge

                        sorsha
          you  are you the mother of that
          child

                      madmartigan
          no
           looks at llug in a high voice
          i mean yes

sorsha strides over to madmartigan her sword drawn

                        sorsha
          let me see it

madmartigan looks at willow then back at sorsha

                      madmartigan
                     high voice
          i cant

                        sorsha
          let me see it

                        willow
          no  you cant

madmartigan looks at willow then back at sorsha

                      madmartigan
                     high voice
          i cant

                        sorsha
          why not

                      madmartigan
                      to willow
          why not

                        willow
          because shes sick

                      madmartigan
                      to sorsha
          because shes sick

                        sorsha
          give it to me

sorsha stabs her sword into the floor like a spike
she grabs for the baby  instinctively madmartigan el
bows her away whacking her hard and knocking her off
balance against a nearby bench  the soldiers tense up
pointing their swords and spears

sorsha regains her balance  she rips off her black
helmet  long wild red hair tumbles over her shoulders
she is a young woman and madmartigans eyes pop open
he does his best to keep up his femal facade

                      madmartigan
                     high voice
          gawdyourebeautiful

                        sorsha
          youre not a woman

sorsha comes right up to madmartigan squinting into
his eyes  the she rips away his kerchief and muffler

                         llug
          not a woman

all hell breaks loose  llug charges for madmartigans
throat  madmartigna tucks the baby under his arm and
dashes right out the window  llug bulldozes sorsha and
her lieutenant and the tavern patrons take advantage
of the chaos and stampede for the stairs  willow dives
out the window after madmartigan

                        sorsha
          after them

she grabs her sword and waves it at her soldiers who
clatter toward the stairs flinging people out of their
way

ext roadside tavern  day

madmartigna jumps off the upstairs balcony and lands in
the wagon below  the two ironworkers look up with
concern  then they react with surprise as madmartigan
rips away his disguise

                        willow
          madmartigan  wait

up above willow charges along the balcony  madmarti
gan juggles the baby and whips the reins  the wagon
pulls away ironworkers scrambling after it  willow
flings himself off the balcony  the brownies tumble
out of his pocket  they all land in the back of the
wagon as it takes off

it has stopped raining  in the stable under the
tavern horses smash together and people fall in the
mud and the nockmaar soldiers get tangled up in the
traffic jam

ext road  chase  day

as madmartigan lashes the horse willow crawls up to
hum and takes the baby

                        willow
          we couldve been killed madmarti
          gan

in the back the brownies boucne all over the place
amid wooden kegs and other objects  when they finally
get their balane they look back in alarm

chasing them are two nockmaar horsemen plus a death dog
and a war chariot

willow ducks low and peeks out protectively hugging
the baby  the wagon bounces and flies along but the
minions are quickly gaining  rool and teemo spring
into action  they struggle with all their might and
manage to kck small wooden kegs off the back of the
wagon

the kegs bounce onto the road and the minions lose
some ground trying to avoid them  but soon the horse
men flank the wagon  one leaps off his galloping horse
and climbs on board  the other draws an arrow and gets
ready to fire

madmartigan is about to be shot between the eyes  he
quickly rolls into the back  the archer firse and
hits the other minion in the chest  madmartigna snaps
a wooden stake off the wagon side and smashes
the wounded minion off the wagon  he crashes onto the
road

willow harnesses the papoose to his chest and grabs the
reins  at the same time the minion archer leaps
aboard  he and madmartigan fight in the back

                        willow
          heeyah  heeyah

then theres a terrible howl right beside willow  the
death dog is leaping alongside the wagon gnashing and
trying to board  willow yanks the reins and swerves
the wagon into the dog which yelps furiously  in the
back madmartigan and the minion are thrown by the
swerving jolt

                        willow
          oh no

up ahead willow sees an exposed tree root in the road
the wagon is headed straight for it  the wheel hits
the root hard and willow is dumped onto the wagon floor
and very nearly goes overboard

in the back madmartigan and the minion keep fighting
as the wagon clatter along out of control  the death
dog catches up again and this time spring aboard

                         death
          bordak

the dog snaps at the baby  willow scurries under the
wagon seat  the dog stands up on its hind feet

                         death
          bordak

it gets ready to attack  but whack an overhanging
tree branch hits it and willow looks up from under the
seat and sees the mangled dog twitching and dangling
from the tree rapidly disappearing in the distance

in the back meanwhile the minion draws a knife  mad
martigan ducks out of his way hanging onto a post at
the edge of the tailgate  the minion comes after him

suddenly the wagon wheel wobbles and the rim flies off
the jolt throws the minion off balance  madmartigan
kicks him  the minion hurtles off the taligate but
holds on dragged by the wagon

rool and teemo grab hold of a rope securing a large
wooden keg  together they yank it  untying the keg and
sending it tumbling off the back  the minion looks up
in horror as the heavy keg crushes him

but the danger is far from over  the wagon rocks along
with one wheel halfdestroyed  willow whips the reins
and looks over his shoulder  steamrolling toward them
is the war chariot

the nockmaar chariot driver stands up and stuffs the
reins in his mouth  he rasise his arm and begins to
twirl a deadly weapon a kind of boloblade over his
head

madmartigan defends himself with a wooden wagonpost
the chariot driver hurls the whistling blade  chonk
it lodges in the post  madmartigan tugs  so does the
chariot driver  back and forth the wagons smashing up
each other  at last madmartigan lets go of the post
and the chariot driver is sent tumbling through the
airl over a cliff to his death

                        willow
          woahwoah

willow tries to stop the horse  but the wheel col
lapses and he is thrown off into a ditch  the brownies
dive overboard  madmartigan jumps off and delibrerately
sends the wagon up the road  he scrambles down into
the ditch and lies flat beside willow

suddenly hoofbeats thunder and sorsha and the rest of
her troops gallop past  lying flat madmartigna raises
his head and sees sorshas long flowing red hair

                      madmartigan
          that girl is a vision

as soon as the troops are gone willow jumps up

                        willow
          wheres the baby

                      madmartigan
          i thought you had her

                      roolteemo
          willow

the brownies are waving and gesturing madly pointing
at a heap of boards and rubble that broke off the
wagon  willow and madmartigan race over and start dig
ging flinging debris aside

                      madmartigan
          now willow i know youre gonna
          blame me for this but it wasnt my
          fault

                        willow
          elora danan

willow sees the battered lifeless papoose  he grabs
it and rips it open  madmartigan kneels in the dirt
remorsefully

                      madmartigan
          when i left the crossroads i got
          ambushed by an elf

                        willow
          madmartigan  you saved her life

                      madmartigan
          i did

willow holds up the baby  she giggles and smiles
madmartigan switches gears boasting

                      madmartigan
          i mean of course i saved her life
          shes almost my daughter isnt
          she

willow bundles the baby and looks up the road

                        willow
          lets get out of here before they
          come back

they hurry off into the darkening woods

ext woods  night

a campfire blazes  willow tends the baby while the
brownies point up at the stars

                         teemo
          northeast is that way  weve come
          west and south  i think

madmartigan dumps a big log on the fire spraying the
brownies with sparks

                         rool
          watch it  youre gonna set us on 
          fire

                      madmartigan
          not a bad idea

madmartigan terrorizes them with a flaming stick  then
he squats beside willow and the baby

                      madmartigan
          so youre on your way to tir
          asleen huh  i hate to tell you
          this willow but tir asleen dosnt
          exist

                        willow
          yes it does  the fairy queen told
          me

                      madmartigan
          the fairy queen  and the baby
          heres a princess  and these two
          rodents are your guides

he shakes his head sceptically stretches out and puts
his feet up on a log

                      madmartigan
          yeah wellin the morning i think
          ill be on my way

he laughs sarcastically  willow sets down the baby  he
takes off kiayas necklace and fingers it sadly

                        willow
          madmartigan i need your help

                      madmartigan
          my help  a great magician like
          you  you dont need any help

willow stares at him angrily

                        willow
          but youre a great swordsman

he jumps and starts pacing around the fire  rool and
teemo dive for cover

                        willow
                      explodes
          youre not a warrior madmartigan
          a warrior wouldnt lie there and do
          nothing

he kicks madmartigans boot and knocks his feet off the
log

                        willow
          were in trouble  youve seen the
          big army thats after us  youre a
          fake  youre a bum  youre a
          youre a coward

he picks up a rock and pitches it wildly at the fire
sending up a shower of sparks  madmartigan eyes him
with concern

                      madmartigan
          whats with you peck

willow lets it all pour out  he begins to cry

                        willow
          i miss my wife  i miss my chil
          dren  my boy ranon  hes growing
          up so fast he even helps me on the
          farm now  and little mims  if you
          ever saw her sweet little face
          youd melt madmartigan youd
          melt
                      sniffles
          or maybe you wouldnt  you dont
          know anything about love  you
          dont know anything about any
          thing

willow sits on the ground exhausted  madmartigan
picks up the baby and sits with her in his lap

                      madmartigan
          i was in love once willow  she
          had a hold on my heart  i could
          barely function
                       a pause
          i was a great swordsman  i was
          knighted  i could have been king

                        willow
          you

                      madmartigan
          yeah me  king  but she betrayed
          me  she robbed me of my dream

madmartigan gently rocks the baby and stares at the
fire  willow watches him curiously

                      madmartigan
          ill never fall in love again

ext woods  morning

willow wakes up and looks around  the baby is gone
he panics  he scrambles a short distance through
some bushes

                        willow
          madmartigan  madmartigan

theyve been camped all night near the shore of a lake
willow finds madmartigan and the baby bathing happily
in the water

                      madmartigan
          relax willow  were having fun

the baby squeals with delight as madmartigan twirls her
around  he lifts her yp and carries her to willow on
the shore  the brownies crawl thorugh the bushes
rool points out at the lake

                         rool
          thats it  the sorceress lives
          there

in the middle of the lake is an island with a single
tree

                         teemo
          are you sure

                         rool
                       excited
          yes  raziel  she lives out on
          that island

madmartigan lets out a sarcastic sceptical laugh
teemo scratches his head and squints out at the island

                         teemo
          that tree dosnt look like gold to
          me

                      madmartigan
          gold

madmartigan rubs his chin with sudden interest

                         teemo
          its branches are supposed to be
          made of gold solid gold

                        willow
          how are we going to get out there

madmartigan is suddenly pacing and thinking

                      madmartigan
          well find a way willow  look
          over therethat looks like a
          villagemaybe theyve got a boat
          come on what are you waiting for

madmartigan runs along the shore toward a small village
in the distance

ext deserted fishing village  day

half a dozen decrepit huts sit rotting on the edge of
the lake  there are no inhabitants just a lot of dis
carded junk including a few battered fishing boats
but madmartigan keeping one eye on the gold tree out
on the island is undaunted  he rummages through the
debris hauling out a fishing boat and shouldering it
toward the water

                      madmartigan
          give me a hand here peck

willow hoists the baby into the papoose and helps mad
martigan

                          boy
          what are you doing

they turn around  a goldenhaired boy is standing
waistdeep in th elake  madmartigan is instantly wary
of him

                      madmartigan
          its nothing to do with you

but the boy looks innocent and harmless and willow ap
proaches him

                        willow
          we need to get out to that island

                          boy
          the island is cursed

madmartigan scoffs at this nonsense grunting and push
ing the boat into the water

                        willow
          weve traveled a long way  were
          looking for fin raziel

                         teemo
          the sorceress

                          boy
          shes there  but you cant go
          there  the island is cursed

                      madmartigan
                     no patience
          yeah  who cursed it

                          boy
          queen bavmorda  her powers govern
          the elements

                      madmartigan
          ahh hes trying to protect the
          gold  come on willow  jump in

madmartigan climbs into the boat and grabs an oar
eager to go  willow looks down at the brownies for
help

                        willow
          what would the fairy queen say

                         rool
          shes not here

                         teemo
                       to rool
          obviously

                        willow
          without raziel well never find tir
          asleen
                      decision
          wed better go

willow marches to the boat  calmly accepting their
choice the goldenhaired boy dives into the lake and
disappears  willow and the brownies board the boat
and madmartigan poles them away from the shore

ext lake  day

they row across the placid lake toward the island

ext island  day

they climb onto the rocky shore  flies buzz and swarm
around them and creepy bugs crawl around their feet
broken skeletons litter the shore  handing the baby
back and forth willow and madmartigan claw their way
up to the large tree

                        willow
          raziel  hello  fin raziel

madmartigan greedily reaches up to touch a branch

                        raziel
          get away  get away

a littel animal scurries down the tree and hisses vi
ciously at madmartigan chattering its teeth

                        raziel
          youll die  youll die

raziel scampers over to willow  her voice screeches
like a parrot  she looks like an otter with a bush
tail

                        raziel
          who are you  who are you

                        willow
          im willow ufgood  im here to
          find fin raziel

she springs right onto willows chest

                        raziel
          thats me  raziel  raziel

willow looks down at the browines questioninghly

                        willow
          this cant be right  this isnt a
          sorceress  this is some kind of
          animal

                         teemo
          queen bavmorda transformed her

                        raziel
          what do you want

                        willow
          we need your help  to take this
          baby to tir asleen  shes a prin
          cess

still sceptical willow shows raziel the babys mark
raziel shoots up onto a branch and frantically flicks
her tail

                        raziel
          elora danan

madmartigan snaps a branch off the tree  a flock of
birds suddenly screech and fly away  his eyes bulge

                      madmartigan
          rool  teemo  you were right
          this whole tree is made of gold

he strips away the bark revealing a vein of gold

                        raziel
          fools  you should never have come
          to this place  were all going to
          die

the wind begins to blow and the sky darkens  raziel
zips over to willow and whispers intensely

                        raziel
          weve got to get off this island
          right now  hurry  the boat  its
          our only chance

the wind howls  they hurry down to the boat

                        willow
          madmartigan

madmartigan is greedily breaking branches off the tree

                      madmartigan
          wait  gold  gold

waves lash at the boat as they jump aboard  madmarti
gan loads up with branches  as they push off he
scrambles down the rocks  just in time he jumps into
the boat as the storm swirls it out into the frothy
lake

ext lake  day

willow clutches the baby as the raging storm pitches
the boat

                        willow
          help madmartigan  the oar

madmartigan hangs onto his gold but pices of it drop
and topple overboard

                      madmartigan
          my gold

suddenly a hand appears on the stern  the water boy
climbs in

                        raziel
          kill him

                        willow
          no

                        raziel
          kill him

madmartigna hesitates but then smashes the boy back
into the lake  the boy surfaces like a dolphin  his
shape begins to change becoming fishlike diving and
vanishing

then  he attacks the boat  he is now a ferocious
sharklike monster  he chomps the boat and the gold
branches slide into the water  madmartigan bashes the
monster with the oar then grabs an anchor  the mon
ster attacks again and madmartigan jabs its gill with
the anchor

the monster sinks into the lake  they all sigh with
relief  madmartigan shrugs proudly  suddenly the an
chor line unravels tangling madmartigans legs in
fishing nets and yanking him overboard

underwater madmartigan swirls behind the monster  he
pulls himself along the anchor line and finally cuts
himself free with his dagger

he surfaces and madly swims toward the pitching boat
willow reaches out to him  the monster surfaces and
circles the boat  then it attacks madmartigan

                      madmartigan
          no  help  willow

willow digs out a magic acorn  but he drops it  he
fumbles in the leaking boat and finally finds it  the
monster opens its jaws and goes to devour madmartigan
willow throws the acorn

the monster miraculously turns to stone  madmartigan
grabs the boat and watches in amazement as the monster
sinks  willow hauls him into the boat

ext lakeshore  day

the storm begins to die down as they jump to shore ex
hausted  madmartigan wears nothing now but a ragged
loincloth  he falls to his knees coughing and spit
ting

                      madmartigan
          willowyouyou gotmagic
          waitwe could team up

he pulls himself up and follows willow  suddenly they
all stop  sorsha and her men come out of the woods

                        raziel
          flee  flee

the brownies scurry into a hole  raziel makes a dash
for it but a soldier skewers her tail with his spear
dangling her in front of sorsha

                        sorsha
          raziel  did you think my mother
          would allow you to escape

sorsha gestures and the soldier takes raziel away
the lieutenant wrestles the baby away from willow  he
gives her to sorsha

                        sorsha
          this is what were looking for  it
          bears the markings

willow panics

                      madmartigan
          dont worry willow  if theres
          one thing im good at its charm
          ing a woman

he swaggers forward  sorsha turns and looks at him

                      madmartigan
          so  couldnt live without me huh

sorsha looks up and down at his naked body

                        sorsha
          lose your skirt  how embarassing

madmartigan looks down and adjusts his loincloth

                      madmartigan
          still got what counts

a pause as he smiles at her

                        sorsha
          not for long

she raises her fist and zap  madmartigan is instantly
surrounded by spears and swords

                        sorsha
          well join the column  bring them
          with us

madmartigan and willow are roughly taken away  sorsha
and her troops mount horses and ride off  rool and
teemo crawl lup from under a rock

                         teemo
          we gotta follow them

                         rool
          us  well never catch them  any
          way were all done teemo  lets
          go home

rool walks off and teemo grabs him yanks him back

                         teemo
          get back here rool

                         rool
          ouch  let go of me

rool throws a punch and the brownies somersault into
the bushes fighting each other

ext road  day

sorsha and her men now ride with a caravan of fifty
nockmaar troops  chained by their necks  willow and
madmartigan walk behind a wagon  raziel sits trapped
in a cage on the back of the wagon

                        willow
          i cant go on

willow loses strength falls and is dragged  madmarti
gan picks him up and carries him on his shoulders
sorsha sees this

                      madmartigan
          willow why dont you use your mag
          ic to get us out of here

                        raziel
          hes no magician

                      madmartigan
          he turned that monster into stone

raziel peers sternly at willow who is eyelevel with
her cage

                        raziel
          did you give that acorn its power

                        willow
          no

                        raziel
          a magician makes magic  any fool
          can use it

madmartigan shakes his head at her

                      madmartigan
          then you get us out of here

                        raziel
          i will  but i need help

                        willow
          ill help you

                      madmartigan
          i wont

                        raziel
          you must learn magic

                        willow
          thats all i ever wanted

                        raziel
          then i will teach you

sorsha rides up from the rear of the caravan carrying
the baby who is crying  madmartigan with willow
still on his shoulders straightens up and flirts with
her

                      madmartigan
          nice horsenice hairreal nice
          hairid say youve got the most
          beautiful hair ive ever

she flashes her eyes at him

                        sorsha
          wolff wants to boil you in oil

she nods toward her lieutenant who snarls viciously

                        sorsha
          dont tempt me

she turns away  the baby squirms and cries

                        willow
          if you rest the baby on your
          shoulder shell stop crying

                        sorsha
          shut up

sorsha rides along  she shifts the baby to her other
shoulder and she instantly stops crying  sorsha
throws a look at willow  madmartigan takes a long deep
breath

                      madmartigan
          mmmm i love the smell of a woman

                        sorsha
                    angry threat
          my stepfathers going to tear you
          apart

madmartigan pounds his chest and taunts her

                      madmartigan
          im torn apart already  i mean it
          under all that armor is a 
          beautiful

crack  sorsha whips her horse and gallops ahead

                      madmartigan
          who is that girl anyway

                        raziel
          sorsha queen bavmordas daughter

madmartigan snaps his finger and discourages himself

                      madmartigan
          forget that one madmartigan

raziel leaps against the bars of her cage chatters her
teeth and whispers to willow

                        raziel
          willow  to learn magic first you 
          must make your own philosophers
          stone

                        willow
          what do i need for that

                        raziel
          we must start with feathers dung
          and a lock of your hair

willow pulls a strand of his hair out in front of his
eyes and frowns at it  madmartigan meanwhile cant
take his eyes off sorsha

                      madmartigan
          now thats a woman

ext nockmaar campsite  night

fires and torches burn around pitched tents  soldiers
eat and drink and meat is thrown out to death dogs
from her cage raziel looks down at willow still
chained to the wagon next to madmartigan  willow is
grinding a substance with a rock

                        raziel
          keep working at it  forget all you
          know or think you know  a
          magicians power depends on disord
          er of the mind

she twists her head through the bars  madmartigan
squints up at her

                      madmartigan
          you got that one covered

willow hears the baby crying in a distant tent

                        willow
          i hope shes all right  how much
          more do i have to do of this

                        raziel
          till its in a powder  the energy
          exits within you

                        willow
                      reciting
          i know and the magicians goal is
          to find his true self  but whats
          this got to do with it

                        raziel
          as below so above  you hold the
          univers willow in your hand

madmartigan clasps his forhead

                      madmartigan
          im beginning to think you two
          deserve to be locked up

                        willow
          the universe is a living creature
          like you and me madmartigan

madmartigan cynically gazes at the sky gesturing wide
ly

                      madmartigan
          were a tiny version of all that

                        raziel
          as above so below

madmartigan rolls his eyes  willow jumps to his feet
and shows raziel the substance

                        willow
          im all finished  now what

                        raziel
          burn it to a fine ash

willow looks around  heavily armed nockmaar minions
rip chunks of meat around a campfire

                        willow
          how am i gonna do that

                        raziel
          patience  concentrate  you will
          find a way

suddenly bootsteps clomp toward them  willow quickly
folds the powder inside some cloth and hides it in his
pocket  the lieutenant marches up and scrutinizes them
suspiciously  he abruptly snatches willow up hacks
the chain and drags him off

                        willow
          whats going on

madmartigan sturggles against his chains  angry and
worried

                      madmartigan
          hurt him and youll answer to me

int sorshas tent  night

the lieutenant clamps irons on willows wrists flings
him into a tent and exits  willow looks up and sees
sorsha still in her uniform impatiently pacing wiht
the crying baby

                        sorsha
          this baby wont do what i say  you
          seem to know what to do  here
          make it shut up

sorsha dumps the baby in willows arms and then backs
away

                        willow
          she needs to be changed

                        sorsha
          i changed her already

willow politely shrugs

                        willow
          she needs to be changed again
sorsha crosses her arms in a hugg and watches as willow
changes the baby  soon the baby stops crying  re
lieved yet still anxious sorsha paces to a mirror
willow rocks the baby gently absently looking at the
fire  then his eyes focus on the fire

                        sorsha
          who is that horrible friend of
          yours

                        willow
                  watching the fire
          madmartigan

                        sorsha
          who is he

                        willow
          i dont know much about him

sorsha fiddles with her long red hair  willow creeps
toward the fire

                        sorsha
          hes very bold  do you really
          think my hair is beautiful

she turns and looks right at willow  he looks back
she asks the question again by holding out strands of
her hair

                        willow
          uh yes  its very nice hair

he suddenly strides over to sorsha

                        willow
          shes hungry

                        sorsha
          i know shes hungry  i tried to
          feed her but she wouldnt eat a
          thing  im not a wet nurse

                        willow
          here  hold her

he hands sorsha the baby then goes to the fire where
theres a stone crock of milk  he carefully takes his
cloth pouch out of his pocket and unfolds it  at the
other side of the tent sorsha awkwardly paces with the
baby

                        sorsha
          i tried everything  a spoon  i
          poured milk into her mouth she just
          spat it out  i dont know what to
          do im not a mother

during this willow ignites his powdery substance  it
flares slightly then burns to an ash  he gathers it
up then returns to sorsha with the milk

                        willow
          sometimes she likes it heated

willow finds a strip of cloth dips it in the milk and
feeds elora danan in sorshas arms  he looks up at
sorsha and smiles

                        willow
          shes a good baby

sorsha looks down at the baby

ext nockmaar campsite  morning

the caravan packs up to move on  soldiers drag willow
to the wagon and lift him on board chaining him beside
raziels cage  willow excitedly pats his pocker and
whispers

                        willow
          i did it  i got the ashes

when the soldiers leave he digs out the pouch and
proudly shows it to raziel

                        raziel
          good  the first step is complete

chained behind the wagon madmartigan reaches forward
and pokes willow with his finger

                      madmartigan
          did she ask about me

                        willow
          who

                      madmartigan
          come on peck dont give me a hard
          time  you were in her ten all
          night  did she say anything

willow deliberately plays innocent

                        willow
          she said lots of things

                      madmartigan
          willow

willow grins  at last

                        willow
          she asked about you madmartigan

                      madmartigan
          well what did she say

suddenly sorsha gallops by on horseback holding the
baby  she flings a wad of clothes at madmartigan

                        sorsha
          here  youre going to need these
          where were going

she rides off  madmartigan looks down at the clothes
the looks at willow

                      madmartigan
          shes in love

                        willow
          youre crazy  i think youre in
          love

ext snow mountain  day

the nockmaar caravan climbs into snowcovered moun
tains  in the wagon raziel is grilling willow  he
concentrates hard cramming memorizing straining

                        raziel
          we dont have much time left  go
          on  go on

                        willow
          i must concetrate my
          imaginationto creat a
          newreality

                        raziel
          whats the magicians weapon

                        willow
          the limitless power of

raziel flips around in spasms of impatience

                        raziel
          your will  your will  what else
          could it be

                        willow
                     frustrated
          i cant remember all these things
          what am i learning

                        raziel
          the art of transformation


                        willow
                     exasperated
          but what am i gonna transform

                        raziel
          me

willow and madmartigan stare at raziel

                        willow
          you

                     madmartigan
          what are you gonna become raziel
          queen of the rodents

sorsha rides up to the wagon

                        sorsha
          the babys cold  take her

she dismounts  with care keeping the baby bundled
she hands the baby to willow  madmartigan watches and
listens

                        raziel
          you remind me of your father sor
          sha

                        sorsha
          my father was a weakling

                        raziel
          he was a great king
                 madmartigan reacts
          not like your stepfather not like
          your mother  he ruled tir asleen
          with kindness and a generous
          heart

                        sorsha
          my mother calls that weakness

                      madmartigan
          what do you call it

sorsha turns and glares at madmartigan

                        sorsha
          i do what im told

                      madmartigan
          too bad youre not more like
          your father

she looks at him a moment then abruptly mounts her
horse and rides ahead

ext road toward snow camp  late afternoon

the caravan rides toward a large nockmaar camp  death
dogs howl and fires burn ominously in the distance
willow and madmartigan watch as king kael rides out to
meet the caravan

kael is huge powerful and cruel partbeast part man
and he carries a terrible sword at his side  sorsha
carefully shows him the baby  he grabs it from her

                        sorsha
          be careful

                         kael
          dont tell me what to do

kael viciously hits sorsha knocking her off her horse
madmartgian and willow watch angrily  kail gallops to
ward camp with the baby under his ar  sorsha shakes
away the pain and humiliated mounts her horse

                      madmartigan
          we gotta get the baby out of here

raziel dashes around her cage

                        raziel
          tonight  complete the
          philosophers stone  i must be
          turned back

looking off into the camp angry and resolute willow
takes out the ingredients for the stone

                        willow
          ill do it raziel

ext snow camp  night

now in a kind of portable cell madmartigan clutches
the jail bars and looks out at the camp  fires and
torches burn and nockmaar soldiers patrol

shivering cold willow sits crosslegged in the jail
melting snow into a bowl  on a nearby leanto where
skins and shields are kept raziel hangs in her cage

somewhere the baby is crying  in the distance sorsha
goes inside one of the tenst theres a muffled yel
ling between sorsha and kael  then keal storms out of
the tent and goes inside the tent next door

willow pours the ashes into the melted snow

                        raziel
          let it settle  carefully slowly
          concentration and will  now pour
          the water off

as willow works madmartigan binds together scrap
sticks of wood making a long pole  he gingerly hooks
raziels cage with this lifting it from the spike

                        willow
          oooh this smells terrible

                        raziel
          thats the life spark  exxence of
          magic and sorcery

madmartigan angles the pole and the cage slide toard
him  he grabs it with both hands and rips it apart
raziel right away scurries down the cell bars jumps
into the jail and bits willows hand

                        willow
          ouch

                        raziel
          shhhhh

they look out nervously at patrolling nockmaar sol
diers  willow sucks the back of his hand

                        willow
          whatd you bit me for

                        raziel
          we need blood  to nourish the
          stone  charge the stone with ener
          gy

willow drips his blood into the concoction then stirs
it with a twig  it begins to glow from within

                        raziel
          the components of the stone are
          fusing

willows eyes widen with anticipation

ext snow camp  night  later

fires have burned down  most of the camp is sleeping
it is nearing dawn  madmartigan stares out at sorshas
tent deep in thought  willow holds up the completed
philosophers stone a red ball of pliable putty

                        raziel
          again  what is the magicians
          weapon

                        willow
          his will

                        raziel
          now use it

willow presses the philophers stone against the
chainlock  he sheepishly looks over his hsoulder at
raziel

                        willow
          i just wanted to test it first

                        raziel
          no  change me back into a sor
          ceress willow

willow goes to raziel and concentrates with physical
and mental intensity

                        willow
          avaggdu supriom luwatha

it starts to work  raziel curls into a ball of fur
the fur changes to feathers  she begins to squawk
strangely  she emerges as a ravensized bird

                        willow
          what did i do

he sags with exhaustion and massages his blistered
hands  then clink  the lock falls open  they all
look over and madmartigan picks it up off the ground

                      madmartigan
          not bad peck  im impressed  you
          busted the lock

wilow clutches madmartigans arm  he holds up the
stone

                        willow
          madmartigan  lets go  lets get
          eloran danan

with coldness in his eyes madmartigan stares across
the camp at sorshas tent

                      madmartigan
          lets get elora danan

they sneak away

                        raziel
          wait  what about me

raziel flaps her wings and flies up into the dark sky

ext through the camp  dawn

willow and madmartigan sneak behind tents hiding from
the patrolling guards  very quietly they creep up to
kaels tent  madmartigan knocks out a guard and steals
his knife  they crawl dangerously over to sorshas
tent

                      madmartigan
          youre a magician willow  but im
          a thief  wait here  ill get the
          baby

madmartigan slits the back of the tent open and slips
inside  raziel flutters down and lands on willows
shoulder

                        raziel
          im supposed to be a beautiful wo
          man

willow shrugs apologetically

int sorshas tent  dawn

crouched inside the large tent madmartigan calculates
his next move  in the far corner sorsha lies asleep
he steals the baby from a crib of straw  starts to
leave  but stops  willow pokes his head inside

                        willow
                      whispers
          come on madmartigan

madmartigan stares over at sorsha  lured by her beau
ty he slowly walks toward her bed

                        willow
          what are you doing  get out of
          there

madmartigan looks down at her  morning rushlight il
luminates her youthful face and her long red hair is
spread across her pillow  out of her armor in soft
nightclothes she looks like a goddess  upon her
breast is a golden necklet inlaid with ornate jewels
quietly

                      madmartigan
          i love you

he kisses her lips  her eyes open

                        sorsha
          one move and you really will be a
          woman

holding the baby madmartigan does not move a muscle
sorsha holds a knife at his crotch

                        sorsha
          youre a fool  now put her back

                      madmartigan
          im not going to let this baby die

sorsha presses the knife

                        sorsha
          dont make me kill you

willow watches as madmartigna carefully backs away from
sorsha

                      madmartigan
          i believe you would

sitting up sorsha waves her knife  madmartigan places
the baby in the straw crib

                        sorsha
          why did you say that

                      madmartigan
          say what

                        sorsha
          i love you

madmartigan walks back to sorsha bed  willow crawls
into the tent behind madmartigans back

                      madmartigan
          because its true

                        sorsha
          i dont believe you

sorsha defensively kneels on her bed as madmartigan
walks toward her  he shows no fear of her knife com
pelled instead by honest passion  for once he isnt
conning anybody  his feelings are genuine

                      madmartigan
          i wish it werent true  i swore
          id never let this happen  i hate
          you  i hate your beauty i hate
          your innocence i hate the feelings
          youve awakened in me

the knife trembles in sorshas hand

                       madmartigan
          im in love with you sorsha  i
          dont want to be but a power has
          enchanted me and i stand helpless
          against it  its torture  battle
          field or prison cell was never half
          as cruel

he kneels onto her bed  her hand falls her knife
falls to the floor her chest heaves with fear and emo
tion

                      madmartigan
          i want you and i cant have you so
          i want you all the more  if this
          were another time and another place
          id

he stops  he looks into her eyes  willow dashes out of
the tent with the baby

                        sorsha
          youd what

madmartigan takes sorsha in his arms and kisses her
her trembling body surrenders to him  until

they hear a scream outside the tent  it all happens
quickly  kael rips open the canvas and catches them in
their embrace  in one hand he holds the baby  in the
other hand  willow

                         kael
          whats going on here

sorsha sees the baby sees the empty crib and smashes
madmartigan hard across the face

                        sorsha
          deceiver

kael hurls willow across the tent and tosses the baby
in the straw  growling horribly he lunges at madmarti
gan  madmartigan rolls away and sees sorshas sword
nearby  grabs it  as kael draws his sword madmarti
gan artfully slices away the center pole and the en
tie tent collapses

ext snow camp  morning

bodies writhe under the fallen mass of canvas and ra
ziel hovers and screeches above  then a silver blade
slits through the tent and out jumps madmartigan
wielding sorshas sword

alarm  nockmaar soldiers and death dogs charge across
the snow  madmartigan battles them with incredible
skill backing toward the mountain slope

wilow crawls out from under the corner of the tent
clutchign the baby  madmartigan kills several so
diers littering the snow with bodies and weapons
willow reacts impressed by madmartigans swordsman
ship  madmartigan makes the mistake of acknowledging
it  he bows prod and cocky

                      madmartigan
          whoops

he slips on the ice and catches himself  nearby a
shield skids off along the snow

                      madmartigan
          willow  jump on the shiled

kael howls and thrashes inside the collapsed tent
then he gashes it open with his huge black sword  he
sees willow and the baby get on the large shield

                         kael
          bowmen  horses  after them

madmartigan runs toward the shield  archers draw their
bows  madmartigan turns and sees sorsha beside kael

                      madmartigan
          sorsha  i didnt betray you  i
          love you

as arrows rain down around him madmartigan leaps onto
the shield behind wuillow  sorsha watches them as they
slide away down the mountain raziel flapping and
shrieking overhead

                         kael
          kill them

kael waves his sward and a crack squad of nockmaar
horsemen gallop down the mountain after the sled
shield

ext down the snowy mountain  day

willow hugs the baby while he sits between
madmartigans legs and the shield zooms down the moun
tain zigzagging through trees  madmartigan steers by
using sorshas sword as a ski pole

the nockmaar horsemen gallop after them

the shield skips and flies over snowdrifts and bumps
raziel squawks in terror above them  just missing
trees and rocks they pick up speek  their eyes sud
denly widen  dead ahead is a huge wall of ice

                        willow
          nooo

willow shuts his eyes  the shield speeds toward the
wall  at the last moment madmartigan steers them into
a small opening little more than a crack  raziel
nearly smashing into the wall herself soars up into
the sky and loses them

int ice tunnel  day

they slide and sway down a long tube of ice picking up
incredible speed until they loop 360 degrees upside
down and around and go shooting out a hole at the other
end

ext mountainside  day

they soar thorugh the air  madmartigan and willow
shriek in terror  but elora danan giggles  shes hav
ing fun  but in the air the shield goes one way and
they go another flipping and hanging onto one another
and landing on soft snow with a fffump  inertia keeps
them rolling

clumped together they tumble down the mountain gath
ering snaw as they go bouncing and rolling into a
snowball that gets bigger and bigger and bigger and
bigger and bigger

ext village  day

the snowball steamrolls toward a small village at the
foot of the mountain  chldren look up and squeal with
delight while the adult villagers run for their lives

it plows through the middle of the village scattering
peole and animals left and right  at last it smashes
against a stone house and cracks open like an egg

raziel flies down and lands on top of the snowball
flapping her wings frantically  madmartigan crawls out
as the villagers rush up  they stand back in amaze
ment  the baby starts crying

                      madmartigan
          willow  willow  are you all
          right

madmartigan drags willow and the baby out of the snow
willows body is limp hes unconscious  then a vil
lager points up at the mountain

                       villager
          king kael

                   another villager
          nockmaar troops

                      madmartigan
                    to villagers
          help us

in the distance kael and his squad of about 15 horsemen
charge toward the village  the villagers flee into
their huts and houses  madmartigan scoops up willow
and the baby  some villagers usher them around a
corner and into a house just as kaels army invades the
town

int house cellar  day

madmartigan is bustled underground thorugh a cellar
into a hidden storage room and a disguised door shuts
behind him  men women and children huddle here in
silence like refugees or criminals  madmartigan hands
the crying baby to a woman then lays willow on the
floor  suddenly a huge hand clamps his shoulder  his
old friend and rival airk thaughbaer

                         airk
          madmartigan  settled down with a
          family huh

madmartigan knocks airks hand away

                      madmartigan
          you left me to die friend

                         airk
          you managed alright

                      madmartigan
          is this whats left of your army

among the refugees is a handful of warbattered warri
ors  one of them an officer looks out through the
ceiling beams

                        officer
          keep that baby quiet

they hear hoofbeats outside  airk gives madmartigan a
flask of whiskey  he squirts whiskey into willows
mouth and willow coughs and shudders awake

ext village  day

raziel flies onto a rooftop and looks down  nockmaar
soldiers flood the village dismounting kicking down
doors searching houses  then raziel sees kael riding
alongside sorsha

in her armor at a distance sorsha looks fierce  but
closer her eyes show confusion hesitation  kael
watches her closely as he waves his sword at the vil
lage

                         kael
          where is it  tell us or well burn
          your village  sorsha

he shakes her roughly  she dismounts  raziel watches
as sorsha and two other soldiers enter the house where
madmartigan and willow are hiding

int house cellar  day

willow holds the baby tight  madmartigan airk and the
officer watch through the cracks  boots pound above
shaking dust down on them  a door opens

nobody breathes  willow buries the baby in his chest
madmartigan peeks through the door  sorsha alone
comes down into the cellar  they see her  searching
airks men reach for their swords begin to draw
whisper

                        officer
          kill her

madmartigam shakes his head

                      madmartigan
          youll draw the others

airk looks at madmartigan curiously  madmartigan
watches sorsha she is right there inches away
inaudibly be says her name  at last she goes back
upstairs

int house  upstairs  day

sorsha comes up and begins to leave with the other two
soldiers

int cellar

in willows arms the baby lets out a cry

int house  upstairs

sorsha and the soldiers stop and draw swords  the
babys cry is suddenly drowned out by a loud sdrrech
raziel flaps in through a window and flies madly around
the house cawing and shrieking insanely  sorsha and
the soldiers sheathe their swords and leave

int cellar

everyone sighs with relief

ext village  day

in the distance the nockmaar army is setting houses ab
laze and kael is terrorizing the fleeing people with
his sword  sorsha mounts her horse  her attention is
momemtarily caught by a man across the street who from
the back looks like madmartigan  she gasps  the man
turns around  she sags with disappointment spurs her
horse and rides off

the deadly squad of nockmaar horsemen gallops out of
the village

int house  upstairs  day

madmartigan and willow come upstairs with airk and his
men

                         airk
          its you theyre after madmarti
          gan  what did you do this time

                      madmartigan
          theyre not after me  they want
          the baby

living in the house is a scrawny shiftyeyed man named
cuth  he watches and listens

                         airk
          who is this baby

willow steps forward both protective and proud

                        willow
          the princess elora danan

they all know of her  they all sigh with respeck and
awe and they bow

                        people
          the prophecy has come true

                         airk
          give her to us  well protect her

raziel screeches from a ceiling beam

                        raziel
          not safe  not safe

willow looks up at raziel hopefully

                        willow
          were taking her to tir asleen
          shell be safe there from
          bavmordas powers

airk looks up at raziel  then down at willow  he
clasps madmartigans arm

                         airk
          tir asleen is a myth  it doesnt
          exist

                        raziel
          it does  it does  i will show
          you

airk impatiently waves the bird away and shoves madmar
tigan in the chest

                         airk
          you gonna be a hero madmartigan
          ive lost half my men fighting
          kael and bavmorda and the nock
          maar army  now you and this peck
          and that magpie up in the rafters
          are gonna take em on alone

                      madmartigan
                     challenging
          then come with us

airk angrily stabs his finger at the floor

                         airk
          the war is here  in towns and vil
          lages like this

airk crosses his arms and turns his back looking out
at the burning houses and the suffering families

                         airk
          youre chasing a dream

                      madmartigan
          just get me some horses

airk glares at him furiously  then he kicks open the
door and storms out into the street  madmartigan and
willow hurry after him

ext mountainside  village outskirts  day

airk and his men plus some villagers watch as madmar
tigan mounts a large horse  then some villagers help
willow wiggle up onto a small pony  they sling the
baby over willows back and stuff saddlebags with pro
visions

                     madmartigan
          once again airk we say goodbye

sadly and cynically airk laughs

                         airk
          one day one of us willl stand on
          the others grave

they shake hands ruggedly  madmartigan nods at willow
and they head off  airk watches them go clearly am
bivalent about staying behind  they ride up the snowy
slope raziel circling above

we see cuth  he scratches his filthy beard  he sneaks
off through the village in the direction of the nock
maar army

ext mountain  day

snow circles around them as they climb  then oddly
the mountain becomes warmer and the snow melts away
they reach a slope of dark vitreous lava

                        raziel
          nockmaar  nockmaar

far away at the top of the mountain looms the ominous
catsle of nockmaar  the black lava flows from it
like a deadly shadow

ext cave of the eborsisk  day

their horses rear up as they approach the mouth of the
cave  raziel waits for them circling and cawing

                        raziel
          this way  the cave

they dismount and lead the horses  but the horses pan
ic their frightened neighing voices echoing deep in
the gloomy cave and they break away and run off

willow swallows hard  he and madmartigan follow raziel
inside

int cave of the eborsisk  day

daylight is soon replaced by the orange glow of molten
lava

                        willow
          madmartigan  i cant stand being
          in closedin places

                      madmartigan
          want me to carry elora

                        willow
          im used to her  hows she doing

willow wears the papoose on his back  madmartigan
looks in at the babys face

                      madmartigan
          shes doing a lot better than we
          are peck

willow and madmartigan laugh which breaks the tension
then a geiser of steam hisses near them and a bat
screeches somewhere and the tensions back  they keep
going

int deeper in the cave

hot liquid drips from the ceiling  hissing steam bub
bles from the floor  they go singlefile along a ledge
over a foaming lava pit  raziel is squawking way ahead
in the distance

                      madmartigan
          willowthis may be a bad time to
          ask this question butwhat if
          raziels wrong

                        willow
          she cant be wrong  shes a very
          very very powerful sorceress

                      madmartigan
          shes a bird willow

                        willow
          thats my fault not hers  ive
          got to keep practicing  im still
          in the learning stage but magic
          madmartigan requires concentration
          and

                      madmartigan
          watch it

                        willow
          ahhh

madmartigan lunges and grabs willow just as he is about
to fall into the lava pit  he hauls him to safety
they gasp with relief then they head deeper into the
cave  they stop  they hear something  something
strange

then something moves on the wall

                        willow
          i hate this

the cave walls come to life  down them crawl ugly rock
puffers pillowsized wall crabs that screech horribly
like bats  madmartigan fights them off with his sword
the rock puffers bloat themselves up tripling their
size  madmartigan stabs one and it hisses away like an
untied balloon

suddenly distant hoofbeats thunder and echo  madmar
tigan flashes his sword and turns around ready to de
fend willow and the baby against the army

                      madmartigan
          go willow  run  run

willow listens as the hoofbeats get louder and louder
at last he turns and runs deeper into the cave  mad
martigan waits

the nockmaar soldiers now increased to eighty come
charging down the cave  kael rides in the lead along
side the turncoat cuth  as they gallop along the
ledge cuth makes the mistake of crowding kael who an
grily elbos him horse and all into the boiling pit

the army tramples over the rock puffers which explode
underfoot  madmartigan braces himself as they stampede
toward him  but suddenly the horseman all screech
thir horses to a halt  the horses rear and back away

madmartigan stands there wondering  then suddenly a
shadow looms behind him  he turns

the eborsisk roars and the cave shakes and thunders
its an enormous twoheaded monster that doesnt like
visitors

                      madmartigan
          willow  willow

he looks around frantically  willow is nowhere to be
seen  then the baby cries out  madmartigan sees them
cowering behind a rock  he runs toward them  the
eborsisk exhales flames over his head

                         kael
          go after them

soldiers obey kael and go after madmartigan  he fights
them hacking down a few while a few others are in
cinerated by the eborsisk  sorshas horse rears as she
watches madmartigan battle for his life  archers shoot
arrows which pierce the eborsisk and make it even an
grier

willow digs one of his magic acorns out of his pocket
a head of the eborsisk gnashes at madmartigan  madmar
tigan looks to willow for help

                      madmartigan
          hurry willow  throw it

willow winds up and throws with all his might  the
eborsisk blasts a flame which startles willow wreck
ing his aim  madmartigans eyes pop open and he ducks
as the acorn whistles by his ear  the acorn bounces
off a rock and flies back trickles along the ground
and hits a nockmaar soldier who is already dead  the
soldiers body turns to stone

                        raziel
          look out

one of the eborsisks heads lunges toward the baby
raziel dives like a rocket and attacks the monsters
eye as willow whisks the baby away

then madmartigan leaps up on the eborsisk  he climbs
up over its flaming head and drives his sword down
through its skull  the eborsisk howls horribly and its
wounded head falls  madmartigan topples down its back
and leaps onto a horse knocking its rider off and all
in one swashbuckling move scooping willow and the baby
up onto the back of the horse and galloping away

                         kael
          after them

but as his horsement charge forward the eborsisk falls
to its knees halfdead  the surviving head blasts the
soldiers with fire  they rear back on their horses and
continue to battle the monster with arrows and spears

ext cave  tir asleen  day

they ride out of the mouth of the dark cave into a lush
valley of flowers  in the distance stands the beau
tiful castle of tir asleen  raziel zooms up out of the
cave an flies above them as they gallop fullspeed to
ward it  she soars higher and higher and flies right
over the castle wall

ext tir asleen castle  day

the door of the castle is half open  madmartigan and
willow gallop inside

int tir asleen  day

raziel flies down to meet them as they ride into the
castle courtyard  a haunting wind drones amont twelve
pillars which look like stone from a distance

                        raziel
          tir asleen

                        willow
          theres nobody here

they approach the twelve pillars

                        raziel
          the knights of the pacalcade  the
          kings bravest warriors

suddenly they hear hoofbeats and a warcry

ext tir asleen  day

kael and his army charge out of the cave and trample
across the valley of flowers

int tir asleen

madmartigan rushes to the heavy door and strains to
shut it

                        raziel
          turn them back willow

willow stares at the twelve knights

                        willow
          how

                        raziel
          use the philosophers stone  hur
          ry  invocation  release them

the castle door is rusted and old  madmartigan heaves
against it  outside he can see the army storming to
ward him

willow digs out his philosophers stone  he squints
and strains concentrating his energy

                        willow
          beings within beings without
          danu danu walkail funfawtha

he continues to chant and to concentrate  one of the
knights comes to life

                        willow
          i did it  madmartigan  come here
          look  you gotta see this  i did
          it

                        raziel
          more  more

madmartigan heaves the door shut just as the army
charges up and he locks it with a huge bolt

ext tir asleen  day

the nockmaar horsemen rear back form the locked door

                         kael
          assault  scale the walls

he sends his men in all directions  they leap off
their horses and hack down trees from the nearby woods

int tir asleen

willow brings the knights to life one by one

                        willow
          tuatha tuatha danu

each knight shakes himself into action  madmartigan
follows them in an armory

                        willow
          raziel  i transformed them all
          im a magician

                        raziel
          you didnt transform them willow
          you released them  that was noth
          ing  now change me

willows on a roll  he rubs his hands together

                        willow
          i feel like i could do anything

he drops to his knees and stretches his philosophers
stone apart like an accordian

ext tir asleen  armory

madmartigan and the knights grab weapons and armor
two knights wheel a catapult out ot the battlements
madmartigan wees displayed specially on a rack a com
plete set of armor of shining silver  he reaches out
to touch it

                        knight
          it belonged to our king

int tir asleen  courtyard

the knights light a fire and boil vats of oil  willow
struggles to transform raziel trying to remember all
he has learned

                        willow
          capture the enerylimitless
          power of the willavvdachh doth
          indicht rredd baerkinhaekin

raziel begins to change  from a bird she expands
stretches and turns into a goat

                        willow
          raziel  is that you  ohoh  what
          happened

raziel tilts her goat head

                        raziel
          i hate this

suddenly flaming arrows rain down over the castle wall
willow scoops up the baby and he and raziel run for cover

ext tir asleen

from their horses kael and sorsha watch as the soldiers
climb the wall  they suddenly hear a hacking noise
above and several nockmaar men tumble down the ladders
sorsha looks up

high on the wall stands madmartigan magnificently
dressed in the glimmering armor of the king

kael roars and points his deadly sword up at madmarti
gan  then several soldiers attack the castle door with
a huge battering ram and smash it open

                         kael
          attack

kael and sorsha gallop into the castle with otehr nock
maar horsemen while madmartigan continues to battle
attackers on the castle wall

int tir asleen

willow looks up as the horsemen charge into the court
yeard  he makes a run for the hallway  six horsemen
chase after him jumping off their horses and drawing
their swords

sorsha dismounts draws a sword and strides up the
stairs toward teh top of the wall

int armory

willow runs into the armory and sets the baby down in a
corner  the six horsement run in and corner him  he
grabs an enormous broadsword  swings it like a base
ball bat  the momentum of the heavy sword hurls willow
across the room  the blade pierces a nockmaar man
willow grunts and yanks the sword out  the remaining
soldiers come after him  willow swings and flashes the
sword as they close in on him

ext tir asleen

in the courtyard raziel the goat butts a few soldiers
as the battle rages

up on the wall

madmartigan stabs a minion and sends him hurtlin down
the wall  then he turns around  five more enemy
swordsmen slash at him  madmartigan is amazing  spin
nig lunging ducking he takes out one two three
four of them with ease  but not the fifth

its the nockmaar lieutenant  he and madmartigan
swordfight  the lieutenant hacks the sword out of
madmartigans hand it clatters down into the court
yeard

madmartigan throws up his arm  the lieutenants sword
clangs against his wrist armor knocking madmartigan
onto his back  with two hands the lieutenant lifts his
sword high and goes to kill madmartigan  madmartigan
shuts his eyes  but nothing happens

madmartigan opens his eyes  the lieutenant stands
there frozen staring at him  then falls forward
rolls over madmartigan  and plummets off teh wall  in
his place stands sorsha holding a bloodied sword

                      madmartigan
          sorsha

                        sorsha
          madmartigan

he props himself up on his elbows and smiles

                      madmartigan
          whose side are you on

she reaches down and pulls madmartigan to his feet

                        sorsha
          yours

they look into each others eyes  they go to embrace

                        minion
          arrrggghhh

out of nowhere a nockmaar minion attacks them his
sword flashing over his head sorhsa hardly moves
she simply dusts him off the wall with her sword  she
turns back to madmartigan

                        sorsha
          i love you

their armor clanks as they throw their arms around each
other and kiss high up on the castle wall

int tir asleen  courtyard

kael looks up from his horse

                         kael
          sorsha

he sees sorsha and madmartigan coming down the wall
fighting nockmaar troops  kael holds up his great
hand  in it he holds the baby

                         kael
          bordak

kael waves his men after sorsha and madmartigan

                         kael
          kill them both

he laughs viciously then gallops toward the castle
door  as he reaches it he abruptly stops

ext tir asleen

two hundred horsemen are charging straight toward kael
led by airk thaughbaer

closer riding in airks saddlebags with their tiny
daggers flashing are the longlost brownies teemo and
rool

int tir asleen

kael stuffs the baby deep inside his tunic

                         kael
          troops  to nockmaar  ride with
          me

ext tir asleen

kael and his men gallop across the valley of flowers
and hack their way through airks army

ext tir asleen

kael and his men gallop across the valley of flowers
and hack their way through airks army

int tir asleen

madmartigan and sorsha mount horses  willow staggers
out of the armory wounded and bleeding

                        willow
          im sorry  there were too many of
          them

madmartigan scoops him up  with seven surviving
knights they ride out

ext tir asleen

many of kaels men fall in battle  but kael and a
dozen horsemen plow through and escape into the cave

madmartigan rides up to airk thaughbaer and their
horses powerfully dance around each other

                      madmartigan
          out for a little ride in the coun
          try airk

                         airk
          thought you might get lonely mad
          martigan

then they drop the bravado and clasp hands

                      madmartigan
          thank you friend

                         airk
          lets go

they charge into the cave  the clamor of their
hoofbeats echoes and then fades to silence  the valley
is littered with fallen soldiers

then raziel trots out of the castle  she clipclops
across the valley and follows the others to the cave

ext volcanic mountainside  day

the nockmaar horsemen race out of the cave and gallop
up the obsidian mountain toward the dark castle

the army of tir asleen thunders out of the cave in pur
suit

arrows fire back and forth  the tir asleen army stays
right on the enemys tail  willow hangs on to madmar
tigan for dear life

airk and madmartigan ride side by side perfect team
work and cut a few nockmaar ment down

then madmartigan turns and sees sorsha ride up past
everybody  what a rider she is  she surprises a cou
ple of nockmaar soldiers swordfighting as she rides
killing them both  but she cant catche kael  he rides
ahead of everyone else whipping his horse at an in
credible speed toward the castle

the chase continues up the mountain  the tir asleen
army keeps firing arrows at the enemy or cutting them
down with their swords until only two nockmaar men
ride behind kael  at last kael reaches the castle
drawbridge and leaps onto it as it begins to rise  his
two remaining horsemen leap after him but fall short
and tumble into the dry craggy moat

the drawbridge shuts with a loud echoing klungg  mad
martigan and arik screech to a halt on the brink of the
moat  they look up  the castle loom huge dark
powerful evil

                      madmartigan
          sorsha  any way in there

sorsha rides up to his side

                        sorsha
          no  the fortress is protected on
          all sides

the tir asleen warriors dwarfed by the huge black
wall look at one another with doubt and worry

                         airk
          make camp  well assault at dawn

the army dismounts and begins to unpack supplies  it
is late in the day and shadows lengthen toward evening

int nockmaar castle  late afternoon

kael carries the baby through the castle and climbs up
the gloomy narrowing stairs of the queens tower  he
comes to a large door and hesitates a moment showing
fear  then creaks the door open

int queent tower

bavmorda looks up  kael cowers afraid of her evil
power

                       bavmorda
          kael

carved in the floor is a magicians circle and in the
very middle of this is a sacrificial altar made of
shining copper  bavmorda stands over the altar wear
ing black robes  behind her stand two decrepit druids
kael bows

                         kael
          queen bavmorda  i have the child

the baby squirms and cries  seething with hate bav
morda reaches out her arms then shrinks back

                       bavmorda
          we must start the ritual

she hears noise outside the castle

                       bavmorda
          who is that

                         kael
          an army of rebels and traitors

bavmorda closes her eyes holds out her hands and feels
the vibrations and energy around her  psychically

                       bavmorda
          where is sorsha

                         kael
          she has turned against you

bavmorda opens her eyes furiously  to her druids

                       bavmorda
          purify the altar  arrange the im
          plements  ill deal with sorsha

the druids take the baby from kael  bavmorda storms
out the door

ext nockmaar caslte  dusk

the tir asleen rebels pitch tents and build fires
then they feel a terrible presence and look up at the
castle wall  amid torches and hideous minions bavmor
da leers down at them and laughs

                       bavmorda
          this is not an army

sorsha looks up and her mother seems to laugh right at
her  madmartigan steps forward  seeing him in the ar
mor of the king bavmorda stops laughing taken aback

                        raziel
          willow  get out of here  quick
          hide

raziel suddenly butts willow into a tent

int tent

willlow tumbles into the tent and raziel follows him

                        raziel
          get down  the ritual chant
          quick  protect yourself

                        willow
          why

                        raziel
          just do it

willow takes out his philosophers stone and begins to
chant

ext nockmaar castle

madmartigan faces the queen

                      madmartigan
          weve come for elora danan  turn
          her over to us

bavmorda stabs her finger down at him

                       bavmorda
          you dare to challenge me  you are
          not warriors  youre pigs

she waves her hand casting a horrible spell over the
army  madmartigans body begins to change its shape
his armor breaks apart  he grows hideous

                       bavmorda
          youre all pigs

the rebel soldiers panic and run  slowly horribly
they all expand and contort ripping out of their armor
and clothers casting down their weapons and shields

                        sorsha
          mother  no

                       bavmorda
          you made your decision

bavmorda points at sorsha and sorsha too begins to
change  the mountainside becomes a sea of writhing
flesh  every one of the tir asleen army is transformed
into a pig

int queens tower  dusk bavmorda throws open the
door  her druids are binding the baby in a leather
thong

                       bavmorda
          begin the ritual  now  light the
          first candle

a druid lights on of thirteen enormous candles  bav
morda glares up at the roof  in the middle of it is a
large circular hole showing the starlit sky

                       bavmorda
          come thunder  come lightning
          touch this altar with your pwer
          come into my tower

lightning flashes faintly and thunder rumbles in the
distance  bavmorda smiles with satisfaction

a druid places teh baby on the altar  the other druid
hits a loud gong once  bavmorda enters the magicians
circle  her face contorts as she recites

                       bavmorda
          dark runes dark powers  blend and
          bind bind and blend universal
          night  and the might of nockmaar

magically she produces a razorsharp knife  lightning
flashes again getting closer

int tent  night

willow is crouched on his knees chanting with her eyes
closed

                        raziel
          its over willow  you did well
          you protected yourself

willow looks up  he hears the grunting outside  with
great trepidation he crawls to the tent door

ext nockmaar castle  outside tent  night

willow shudders in horror at the grotesque sight  amid
horses and tents and weapons hundreds of pigs wander
about  willow stands and walks through them  he looks
down at one point and sees rool and teemo  two tiny
baby pigs  then he turns and runs back into the tent

int tent  night

willow collapses to his knees beside raziel

                        willow
          ive come all this way and now
          elora danas going to die

                        raziel
          no  i can still defeat bavmorda

                        willow
          shes too powerful raziel

raziel sternly stamps the ground with her hoof

                        raziel
          a true magician willow never
          surrenders  she is a sorceressi
          am a sorceress  transform me now
          and i will destroy her  hexagram

willow grabs a sword and draws a hexagram around ra
ziel  he steps outside of it holds up his
philosophers stone and begins his magic

                        willow
          banish all disturbing forces from 
          this place  fire water above and
          below  balance  balance  bal
          ance

raziel begins to change  willow wrestles with his own
powers of concentration and will now and then losing
strength

                        raziel
                   voice distorted
          dont give up  willow

he chants and strains  raziel momentarily changes into
a partlyformed grotesque creature  then into a deer
then she becomes human  at last she becomes herself a
oncebeautiful and now elderly woman  willow covers
her unclothed body with a simple smock

                        willow
          raziel

she looks down at her old hands  then her eyes focus
with purpose

                        raziel
          weve got a lot of work to do wil
          low  bring in our brave men

willow opens the tent  some pigs shuttle in and ra
ziel begins to change them back into warriors

ext nockmaar castle night

stationed high on the castle wall three nockmaar min
ions laugh and drink  then they hear the terrible
scream of the baby  they look up at the queens tower

int queens tower  night

a druid hits the ceremonial gong twice  the baby
shrieks  standing over her bavmorda crushes a piece
of glass with her bare hands and drops the fragments
into a witchs bottle

                       bavmorda
          black fire forever kindled within
          let the second right begin

with a pair of razorsharp shears she clips the babys
tiny fingernails and sprinkles them into the witchs
bottle  the bottle glows and sparks and teh heavens
asnwer with distant thunder

ext nockmaar castle  night

in the dark tir asleen camp some figures crouch low and
hurry from tent to tent  closer the faces of rebel
warriors watching the castle wall  fear

int tent  night

willow raziel madmartigan sorsha airk thaughbaer
and a dozen rebel warriors argue back and forth

                         airk
          uphill with our rough weapons
          well never make it

                        sorsha
          elora danan will die

                        raziel
          by dawn upon thirteen tolls of the
          runic drum

                        warrior
          bavmorda is too powerful  we need
          more forces  i say we retreat

the other warriors agree

                        raziel
          bavmorda cannot transform you
          ive protected this camp with a
          spell

                      madmartigan
          can you use your magic to get our
          men into the fortress raziel

raziel shakes her head

                        raziel
          bavmorda has shielded it with a
          spell of her own

the warriors grumble and protest  in a corner rool
and teemo poke their heads in under the canvas  curi
ously they look at willow who sits in silence and deep
though scratching the ground with his fingernail

the warriors rumble

                        willow
          wait

willow jumps to his feet  they all turn to him

                        willow
          i have an idea  back in my village
          we catch a lot of hedgehogs

                      madmartigan
          willow this is war not agricul
          ture

                        willow
          i know i know  but this is a way
          to get into that castle

the all gather around willow to listen

int queens tower  night

thunder rumbles  bavmorda looks up  her face is gra
dually becoming more grotesque as the ritual proceeds
a druid hits the gong three times  now three candles
are lit  the baby screams on the altar

with a demonic laugh bavmorda digs her hands into a
deep vat of blood then raises them over her head  the
blood runs down her arms into the folds of her black
cloak

int tent  night

they all look at willow

                         airk
          its too much work

                        warrior
          it cant be done

                        sorsha
          kael will never fall for it

willow looks hopefully at madmartigan

                      madmartigan
                      doubtful
          i dont know willow

                        willow
          madmartigan you promised me youd
          take care of elora danan like your
          own daughter  she is all that
          matters  are you going to abandon
          her

madmartigan turns away and scratches his beard

                         airk
          come on madmartigan  you gonna
          listen to a peck  you and i are
          warriors  you know this plan will
          never work

frustrated and torn madmartigan brushes airk away
the men rally with airk  mdmartigan goes over to sor
sha

                      madmartigan
          well probably die here sorsha

                        sorsha
          i have no family

the gong rings four time  raziel turns to airk
and his men

                        raziel
          if we do not fight and the baby
          dies all hope for the future is
          lost  i shall face the danger
          alone if i have to

the men shake their heads

                        willow
          me too

madmartigan still torn by indecision raises his arm
and silences the protest

                      madmartigan
          time is running out  we must now
          decide whos going to leave and who
          is going to stay

ext nockmaar castle  night

light pulsates in the queens tower

int queens tower  night

the druids cower behind bavmorda whose face has taken
on the hideous features of a hellish beast  the baby
has been streaked with ritual paint

                       bavmorda
          ocht veth nockkthirth bordak

her voice growls a sickening chant and light shoots
out of her clawliek fingers enveloping the baby  the
baby levitates above the altar in a cocoon of light

ext nockmaar castle  dawn

the sun rises over the volcanic mountain  the gong
strikes twelve times  pan across the slope outside the
castle  the tir asleen army is gone  littered across
the ground are flattened tents borken wagons an dis
carded shields  the wind howls taking bits of debris
with it

alone on the deserted mounatinside stand willow and rz
ziel

                        raziel
          time is running out

                        willow
          surrender

nockmaar soldiers peer down and laugh  willow and ra
ziel trek closer to the castle wall  willow cups his
mouth

                        willow
          we are allpowerful magicians
          give us the baby or we will destroy
          you

the nockmaar soldiers roar with laughter

                         kael
          kill them

the great drawbridge falls across the moat  willow
clutches a spear and trembles nervously

                        raziel
          patience willow

                        willow
          courage willow

hoofbeats  eight horsemen ride out of the castle with
swords high  willow lifts his spear with two hands
turns  and smashes the spear on the ground striking a
loud war drum

suddenly madmartigan leaps out of the ground on horse
back

and the entire mountainside comes to life  tents and
shields fly away and out of pits and trenches the tir
asleen army charges with one loud warcry

the eight nockmaar horsemen are quickly cut down  the
rebels storm across the drawbridge into the castle
airk thaughbaer scoops willow up on his horse and sor
sha scoops raziel up on hers

int nockmaar courtyard  continuous

madmartigan leads the assault cutting down nockmaar
minions as they run out to defend the fortress  sorsha
slides off her horse with raziel  airk sets willow
down  sorsha leads willow and raziel into a dark hall
way

rebel warriors storm into the courtyard  madmartigan
circles behind airk their horses dancing handsomely

                         airk
          lets squah em

in unison their swords flash and they charge across
the courtyard chopping down the enemy

ent castle hallway  day

sorsha hurries willow and raziel down a dark hallway
they come to a corner

                        sorsha
          no willow

she grabs him by the collar and yanks him back  a huge
death dog leaps out wiht a gnashing roar and sorsha
kills it with her sword  willow sags with relief and
the women grab his hands and haul him further down the
tunnel

int tower stairway  day

they come to the gloomy stairs that corkscrew up into
the queens tower  willow climbs nervously behind ra
ziel and sorsha  at the top in the door  light throbs
behind it

suddenly they hear a loud shriek and the door shakes
and bangs  willow fals to his knees frozen with
fear

                        sorsha
          i will face my mother alone

willow and raziel stay back on the stairs  sorsha
climbs to the door  courageously she opens it

int queens tower  day

bavmordas monstrous face fills the screen

                       bavmorda
          sorsha

sorsha recoils in horror  bavmorda looks barely human
she has transformed into a grotesque witch  she waves
her gnarled hand and her druids attack sorsha  sorsha
kills them  the baby lies under a deathlike spell on
the copper altar

                        sorsha
          i wont let you kill her

bavmordas voice is a demonic growl

                       bavmorda
          you are a weakling  like you fa
          ther  can you not see that i am
          about to become allpowerful

lightning explodes overhead  sorsha lunges for the
baby  but bavmorda stops her with a powerful energy
force

                        sorsha
          no

pulsating light lifts sorsha levitates her across the
room and drives her toward a wall of spikes  just as
she is about to be implaes another force stops her
bavmorda can sense the source of it

                       bavmorda
          raziel

the door flies open  the twelve burning candles all
blow out  there stands raziel  sorsha falls to the
floor unconscious  raziel raises her arms magnifi
cently  the sorceresses face each other

int castle courtyard  day

battle rages  madmartigan and airk lead the assault
and the tir asleen rebels push back the nockmaar min
ions  down low where weapons adn bodies fall and
horses clop and stamp the brownies scurry along in
terror arms crossed over their heads looking for
shelter

like mice they dart up some stairs  then a huge boot
nearly crushes them  the dive away and look up
towering high above them kael lets out a loud warcry
and brandishes two weapons a huge sword and a huge
axe

madmartigan and airk turn and see kael  they look at
each other  like samurai warriors they stand ready
kael ralles his weapons and charges toward them

int tower stairway  day

willow creeps toward the door  it suddenly throbs and
flashes  he jumps back

int queens tower  day

bavmorda and raziel oppose each otehr circling the al
tar  the air between them crackles and sparks with the
concentration of energy between them

                        raziel
          the baby will be queen  it has
          been foretold bavmorda

                       bavmorda
          my ritual will kill the prophecy
          now the child dies with it its en
          ergy exiled into oblivion
                  lightning flashes
          you see  i hold the power of the
          universe

                        raziel
          not until your ritual is complete

                       bavmorda
          and who will stop me  the elements
          are slaves to my command

she points at the sky  as if oberying her lightning
flashes and thunder cracks

                        raziel
          there is no one who can match your
          sorcery  except me

raziel waves her arms and light suddenly swirls around
the room  bavmorda counters and chairs come to life
turning into beasts  objects fly about  the tower be
comes a storm of chaos and witchcraft

int castle courtyard  day

kael swings his axe and sword at airk and madmartigan
he roars at his army and six nockmaar swordsmen hurry
over to fight with him  madmartigan and airk split up
madmartigan battles the six swordsmen  airk battles
kael who backs airk up stairs on the castle wall

madmartigan fights in the courtyard  he hears a yell
and looks up  kael strikes airk down

                      madmartigan
          airk

airk falls down the stairs  madmartigan finishes off
the swordsmen then runs to him grabs his bleeding
body

                      madmartigan
          airk  airk

                      madmartigan
          madmartiganyoure a brave
          warriora true frienda good
          man

                      madmartigan
          were gonna win this war airk

an incredible smile lights up airks face as he dies
madmartigan stands  picks up his sword  and goes up
the stairs after kael

int queens tower  day

the sorceress continue their battle  they change
each other into various beasts  they fight physically
and magically

in the midst of chaos the door opens  willow pokes in
his head reacting in fear  then sneaks around the
wall of the room and makes a dash for the baby

                       bavmorda
          as above so below  universe of
          evil raziel  it conquers even
          you

bavmorda hurls a final spell at raziel crippling her
throwing her into a corner  bavmorda laughs and goes
to the altar  the baby is gone

willow races toward the door with the baby  the door
suddenly slams shut  bavmordas voice roars out

                       bavmorda
          stop  bring back that child

willow stops  he turns around  bavmorda towers over
him grotesque monstrous poised to destroy willow
with her magic

                       bavmorda
          who are you

                        willow
          im willow ufgood  im a magician

bavmorda laughs  willopw slowly walks toward her  he
digs into his pocket  takes out the last magic acorn

                        willow
          im a great magician

willow throws the acorn at bavmorda  her hand shoots
out and catches it  the acron begins to turn her to
stone petrifying her hand her wrist her arm  willow
backs away feeling successful  but with intense con
centration of her evil will bavmorda fights off the
acrons spell  it reverses  her arm wrist and hand
turn back to flesh  she crushes the acorn in her
fingers and lets the dust fall to the floor

                       bavmorda
          is that the extent of your power

willow stands there helplessly  thunder cracks and
lightning flashes through the open ceiling above the
altar

int castle courtyard  day

the tir asleen rebels outnumbering and overpowering
the nockmaar army fight toward ultimate victory

madmartigan battles kael on the wall outside the
queens tower  up and up they go  a spectacular
swordfight  until finally madmartigan stabs kael
through the heart  kael screeches and falls through
the air into the moat

madmartigna hurries toward the top of the tower

int queens tower  day

bavmorda looks up at the sky then down at willow

                       bavmorda
          place it on the altar

                        willow
          no  you cant have her

                       bavmorda
          by ritual by sorcery i well draw
          the lightning and send this child
          into the destructive realm

willow straightens up boldly courageously

                        willow
          and with my magic ill send her 
          into theinto the

he gropes for a word  bavmorda laughs at him

                       bavmorda
          youre no magician

                        willow
          into the good

bavmorda instantly stops laughing  her eyes flash

                       bavmorda
          even i dont have the power to do
          that  youre a fraud

willow suddenly starts chanting loudly and desperate
ly  raziel opens her eyes and watches  the chenting
confuses bavmorda  then willow cleverly whips the
baby under his legs and behind his back and suddenly
shes gone

                       bavmorda
          impossible  bordak  bordak

bavmorda flies into a rage  she lunges across the
copper altar  thunder and lightning

                       bavmorda
          aaaaahhhh

a bright fork of lightning conjured by her own evil
shoots in through the ceiling and strikes her  she
howls in pain  her body contorts then bursts into
flame and burns into a shriveling pillar of ash

madmartigan breaks open the door and stomrs in  he
scoops up sorsha reviving her with a kiss

and as if bavmordas death has ended evil and oppres
sion raziel stands up with renewed strength

                        raziel
          willowwillowhowhow did you
          do that

willow bends down under a nearby chair and picks up the
sleeping baby

                        willow
          it was just the old disappearing
          pig trick

elora danans eyes open  and sunlight floods into the
tower

ext tir asleen  day

flags fly hihg above the wondrous caslte  the valley
is lush with flowers and the kingdom is once abain
alive with happy activity

at the door of the castle willow stnds beside a cute
little white pony  the court of tir asleen has gath
ered to see him off  madmartigan in robes and armor
worthy of a king stands proudly beside his queen sor
sha who holds the baby princess elora danan

a trumpet blares  raziel comes forward from inside the
castle dressed in druid robes carrying a sacred book

                        raziel
          willow ufgood  take this book of
          sorcery  you are on your way to
          becoming a great magician

willow accepts the book  everyone applauds  willow
smiles gratefully and humbly  he glances down and no
tices rool and teemo who have been civilized to a de
gree with page boy uniforms fuzzy haircuts and nifty
little swords

madmartigan and sorsha come forward with elora danan

                        willow
          your dream has come true madmarti
          gan

madmartigan smiles with thanks

                      madmartigan
          goodbye peck

willow has one last look at the baby  she smiles and
giggles at him  he happily gives her a kiss

                        willow
          farewell elora danan

suddenly willow flies up in the air  madmartigan lifts
him onto the ponys back  willow and madmartigan shake
hands warmly  and willow rides across the valley of
flowers everybody waving goodbye to him

ext nelwyn village  day

musicians stike up a welcoming march  willow rides
thorugh his village on his little pony proudly carry
ing the sacred book  the nelwyn people swarm around
him wild with excitement and celebration  meegosh
runs up deliriously happy

the high aldwin comes forward beaming with pride and
honors willow with a nod of approval  willow presents
him with the book  old burglekutt peers out  his
mouth drops open and he shrinks away from the crowd

                         kiaya
          willow

willow stands up in his stirrups  he sees kiaya fight
ing her way through the crowd to reach him

                        willow
          kiaya

he jumps off his pony and runs to her  they collide
kiss and embrace  then ranon and mims jump on their
father and hug him  family and friends smother their
homecoming hero with love


                       the end